---
layout:     post
title:      英语笔记|TE20191130
subtitle:   20191130期
date:       2019-12-01
author:     Jinga
header-img: img/grey.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - 英语笔记
    - The Economist
---
* [Leaders](#1)
	* [Hong Kong’s elections were a rebuke to its government](#1.1)
	* [How to police political advertising](#1.2)
	* [Inequality could be lower than you think ](#1.3)
	* [Power storage is the missing link in green-energy plans](#1.4)
	* [The trading system’s referee is about to leave the field](#1.5)
* [Briefing](#2)
	* [Economists are rethinking the numbers on inequality](#2.1)
	* [In Sweden, billionaires are surprisingly popular](#2.2)
* [Science and technology](#3)
	* [A new theory argues same-sex sexual behaviour is an evolutionary norm](#3.1)
	* [Nematode parasites kill a lot of sheep](#3.2)
	* [Electrical energy can be captured as liquid air](#3.3)
	* [How ear bones evolved](#3.4)
	* [Male nightingales spend the winter practising](#3.5)
	* [Slowly, HIV is being beaten](#3.6)
* [The world this week](#4)
	* [Business this week](#4.1)
	* [Politics this week ](#4.2)
* [Business](#5)
	* [Encouraging “purposeful” business](#5.1)
	* [Huawei keeps on going](#5.2)
	* [LVMH tests the limits of luxury](#5.3)
	* [One company, two systems](#5.4)
	* [Supplying clean power is easier than storing it](#5.5)
	* [The reinvention of Novartis](#5.6)
	* [Too much management research is clear as mud](#5.7)

* [Obituary](#6)
	* [Obituary: Raymond Poulidor died on November 13th](#6.1)
* [Books and arts](#7)
	* [A stunning, sad heist in Dresden](#7.1)
	* [How to talk to aliens](#7.2)
	* [In “The Innocents”, a brother and sister struggle to survive](#7.3)
	* [The world-changing life of Walter Raleigh](#7.4)
	* [What would millennial socialists do with power?](#7.5)

***
<h2 id="1">Leaders</h2>

***
<h3 id="1.1">Hong Kong’s elections were a rebuke to its government</h3>

DISTRICT ELECTIONS in Hong Kong are normally about rat control and bus routes. The polls on November 24th were a vote on Hong Kong’s future as a liberal Chinese enclave. The question, in effect, was whether ordinary people support the government and its backers in Beijing in their illiberal methods. The answer was a `resounding`<sup>响亮的</sup> no. The turnout, of over 70%, was higher than any recorded in any kind of election in Hong Kong in which the public has a say (see article). Pro-democracy politicians almost swept the board. 

For Hong Kong’s leaders and China’s Communist Party, this is a rebuke—compounded three days later when President Donald Trump signed into law a bill that supports Hong Kong’s democracy. Irked by months of protests, but unwilling to use troops to crush the demonstrators, they had hoped ordinary Hong Kongers would turn against the black-clad pro-democracy protesters. The election result destroys that dream. The “silent majority” turns out to back the protesters’ cause, despite the violent tactics of some. 

In a true democracy a vote in which opposition candidates took control of 17 out of 18 councils, having previously held none, would end political careers. But Carrie Lam, Hong Kong’s hugely unpopular chief executive, shows no inclination to give in to the protesters by stepping down. That is a pity. Even though Mrs Lam’s successor would be chosen in effect by the Communist Party, a change of leader would allow both sides to draw a deep breath. Concessions are easier to make when they do not involve a climbdown by the person offering them. Mrs Lam has too much at stake. 

Whoever leads Hong Kong has to seek the Communist Party’s approval when making important decisions. So it is in Beijing that the next crucial steps for Hong Kong will be worked out. An obvious one would be to launch an independent inquiry into police conduct since the unrest began in June. This has long been one of the protesters’ main demands—they allege that the police have been brutal, just as the police accuse the protesters of dangerous aggression. Mrs Lam has approved an investigation, but only by a body that tends to side with the government. She would not have to shift much to win a cheer from the streets. 

The next, harder, step should be to restart a public debate about political reform. This was suspended in 2015 after pro-democracy legislators rejected a party-backed proposal that would have let the chief executive be chosen for the first time by popular vote, but from candidates picked by a committee stacked with the party’s supporters. Were the offer revived, the democrats should consider it favourably. Such an arrangement, though far from ideal, would encourage chief-executive candidates to appeal to ordinary Hong Kongers. Sunday’s elections show that voters would spurn a party yes-man. 

Sadly, there is no sign that leaders in Beijing are contemplating any concessions. The Communist Party’s media have depicted the district elections as unfair. They say pro-establishment politicians were intimidated by the “black terror” unleashed by protesters whom officials accuse of being trained and paid for by America and Britain. They point to the roughly 40% of voters who went for pro-government candidates, and say this suggests that many people are repulsed by the protest movement. 

Some Hong Kongers are indeed sickened by the violence and fed up with the loss of business that the protests have caused. But disaster will follow if the party concludes that Hong Kong welcomes its `relentless`<sup>无情的</sup> [`encroachment`](   "You can describe the action or process of encroaching on something as encroachment. 侵犯; 蚕食"), or that it should never be trusted with democracy because votes can produce embarrassing results. The vote halted the unrest. China’s leaders should seize the moment, not assume that the lull will last. 

***

<h3 id="1.2">How to police political advertising</h3>

THE NEW YORK TIMES noted in 1859 that the telegraph was doing a lot to clean up politics. “The telegraph gives the speaker in the furthest East or West an audience as wide as the Union,” it wrote. That made it harder for politicians to promise to relax drinking laws in one city and impose Prohibition in another. 

A century and a half later the internet, the telegraph’s distant descendant, has once again transformed politics. Social networks have become the platforms of choice for politicians hoping to get their messages out and to give their opponents a kicking. The results can be seen in both the American and British elections. Online advertising, modest a decade ago, now accounts for around half the total. 

This time there is less happiness about the results. Elizabeth Warren, a contender for America’s presidency, has accused Facebook of “taking money to promote lies”, referring to the social network’s decision not to pass judgment on the content of the political ads it shows to its users. (To demonstrate her point, Ms Warren bought an ad stating, falsely, that Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s boss, had endorsed Donald Trump for re-election.) In Britain the ruling Conservative Party has embraced disinformation. During a televised debate on November 19th, the party’s Twitter account rebranded itself as “factcheckUK”, in an attempt to present party-political talking-points as disinterested truth. All this is merely one part of a greater worry that the internet, far from being a [`benevolent`](  "If you describe a person in authority as benevolent, you mean that they are kind and fair. 仁慈") source of useful information, has become a swamp of lies, misdirection and conspiracy theories that is harming politics. 

Spooked—especially by the irritation of American politicians, who regulate them—some tech firms have changed their rules. Twitter is to ban nearly all political advertising. Google, which owns YouTube, says it will ban ads that make egregiously false claims, and restrict the precision with which political ads can be aimed at specific groups of people. For now, Facebook is sticking to its guns, saying it will not regulate political speech—though there are signs it is wavering (see article). 

Mr Zuckerberg is an unpopular man these days. Yet in this case he is right. The rules of digital democracy should not be set by unaccountable bosses in the boardrooms of a handful of American firms—let alone, in future, Chinese ones. If politicians want to change the behaviour of candidates, the levers are in their hands. It is their job to make the laws under which everyone else—technology firms included—must operate. 

Partisan rancour and short-term self-interest, particularly in America, may make that difficult. But history offers hope. Politicians have agreed in the past on whether and how to regulate other media technologies such as radio, television and newspapers. The rules created for analogue democracies offer a relatively uncontroversial starting-point for digital ones. In America, for instance, the source of political television ads must be disclosed. The same should be true online. Facebook’s decision to stand back looks more in keeping with the traditions of American democracy than Twitter’s or Google’s commitment to step in. Britain is much stricter. Political advertising is mostly banned on television and radio, with the exception of a limited number of tightly regulated “party-political broadcasts”. Again, it is not clear why the rules for online videos should be more relaxed than those for pitches that appear on television. 

New media offer new possibilities and hence raise new dangers. One is the ability to run “microtargeted” ads, aimed at small groups thought to be most receptive to their message. To the extent that it helps politicians deal with particular worries among voters, this can be beneficial. If abused, though, it could amplify exactly the sort of two-faced campaigning the telegraph was supposed to have banished. 

It is too soon to limit microtargeting. Not only would it be hard to draw clear lines but, more important, politicians should be reluctant to ban each other’s speech. As a first step, they should enforce transparency, ensuring that even narrowly targeted ads are available for anyone to examine. Rival politicians will have incentives to dig up evidence of foul play by their opponents, helping keep everyone honest. The tech giants are already making similar moves voluntarily. That could make it easier to convert them into legal requirements. 

Another difference between old media and new is that the tech firms are planet-spanning in a way that newspapers and television never were. Democracy, though, remains a local affair. America and Britain have different traditions; those of France, Australia or India are different again. If governments decide to tighten the rules around online advertising—and perhaps attempt to drain the digital swamp more broadly—the result will be a [`profusion`]( "If there is a profusion of something or if it occurs in profusion, there is a very large quantity or variety of it. 大量; 丰富") of local laws for the tech firms to comply with. That will be a burden, but it is the price of success.


***

<h3 id="1.3">Inequality could be lower than you think </h3>

EVEN IN A world of polarisation, fake news and social media, some beliefs remain universal, and central to today’s politics. None is more influential than the idea that inequality has risen in the rich world. People read about it in newspapers, hear about it from their politicians and feel it in their daily lives. This belief motivates populists, who say selfish metropolitan elites have pulled the ladder of opportunity away from ordinary people. It has given      `succour`<sup>救助</sup> to the left, who propose ever more radical ways to redistribute wealth (see article). And it has caused alarm among business people, many of whom now claim to pursue a higher social purpose, [`lest`](   "If you do something lest something unpleasant should happen, you do it to try to prevent the unpleasant thing from happening. 以防") they be seen to subscribe to a model of capitalism that everyone knows has failed. 

In many ways the failure is real. Opportunities are restricted. The cost of university education in America has spiralled beyond the reach of many families. Across the rich world, as rents and house prices have soared, it has become harder to afford to live in the successful cities which contain the most jobs (see Free exchange). Meanwhile, the rusting away of old industries has concentrated poverty in particular cities and towns, creating highly visible pockets of deprivation. By some measures inequalities in health and life expectancy are getting worse. 

Yet precisely because the idea of soaring inequality has become an almost universally held belief, it receives too little [`scrutiny`]( "If a person or thing is under scrutiny, they are being studied or observed very carefully. 仔细研究; 仔细观察"). That is a mistake, because the four empirical pillars upon which the temple rests—which are not about housing or geography, but income and wealth—are not as firm as you might think. As our briefing this week explains, these four pillars are being shaken by new research. 

Consider, first, the claim that the top 1% of earners have become detached from everyone else in recent decades, which took hold after the “Occupy Wall Street” movement in 2011. This was always hard to prove outside America. In Britain the share of income of the top 1% is no higher than in the mid-1990s, after adjusting for taxes and government transfers. And even in America, official data suggest that the same measure rose until 2000 and since then has been volatile around a flat trend. It is easily forgotten that America has put in place several policies in recent decades that have cut inequality, such as the expansion of Medicaid, government-funded health insurance for the poor, in 2014. 

Now some economists have re-crunched the numbers and concluded that the income share of the top 1% in America may have been little changed since as long ago as 1960. They argue that earlier researchers mishandled the tax-return data that yield estimates of inequality. Previous results may also have failed to account for falling marriage rates among the poor, which divide income around more households—but not more people. And a bigger chunk of corporate profits may flow to middle-class people than previously realised, because they own shares through pension funds. In 1960 retirement accounts owned just 4% of American shares; by 2015 the figure was 50%. 

The second [`wobbly`](  "Something that is wobbly moves unsteadily from side to side. 摇晃的") pillar is the related claim that household incomes and wages have `stagnated`<sup>停滞</sup> in the long term. Estimates of inflation-adjusted median-income growth in America in 1979-2014 range from a fall of 8% to an increase of 51%, and partisans tend to cherry-pick a figure that tells a convenient story. The huge variation reflects differences in how you treat inflation, government transfers and the definition of a household, but the lowest figures are hard to believe. If you argue that income has shrunk you also have to claim that four decades’ worth of innovation in goods and services, from mobile phones and video streaming to cholesterol-lowering statins, have not improved middle-earners’ lives. That is simply not credible. 

Third is the notion that capital has triumphed over labour as ruthless businesses, owned by the rich, have exploited their workers, moved jobs offshore and automated factories. The claim that inequality is being driven by the rich accumulating capital was a central thesis of Thomas Piketty’s book, “Capital in the Twenty-First Century”, which in 2014 made him the first rock-star economist since Milton Friedman improbably filled auditoriums in the 1980s. Not all Mr Piketty’s theories caught on among economists, but it is widely assumed that a falling share of the rich world’s GDP has been going to workers and a rising share to investors. After a decade of soaring stock prices, this has some resonance with the public. 

Recent research, however, suggests that the decline in labour’s fortunes is explained in most rich countries by exorbitant returns to homeowners, not tycoons. Strip out housing and the earnings of the self-employed (which are hard to divide between capital and labour income), and in most countries labour shares have not fallen. America since 2000 is an exception. But that reflects a failure of regulation, not a fundamental flaw in capitalism. American antitrust regulators and courts have been unforgivably lax, allowing some industries to become too concentrated. This has enabled some firms to gouge their customers and book abnormally high profits. 

The last pillar is that inequalities of wealth—the assets people own, minus their liabilities—have been soaring. Again, this has always been harder to prove in Europe than America. In Denmark, one of the few places with detailed data, the wealth share of the top 1% has not risen for three decades. By contrast, few deny that the richest Americans have sprinted ahead. But even here, wealth is `fiendishly`<sup>不简单地</sup> difficult to estimate. 

The campaign of Elizabeth Warren, a Democratic presidential contender, reckons that the share of wealth owned by the richest 0.1% of Americans rose from 7% in 1978 to 22% in 2012. But a plausible recent estimate suggests that the rise is only half as big as this. (For connoisseurs, the difference rests on the factor by which you scale up investors’ wealth from the capital income they report to the taxman.) This imprecision is a problem for politicians, including Ms Warren and Bernie Sanders, who want wealth taxes, since they may raise less revenue than they expect. 

The fact that dubious claims are made about inequality does not reduce the urgency of tackling economic injustice. But it does call for ensuring that the assumptions on which policies are based are accurate. Those, like Britain’s Labour Party, who favour the radical redistribution of income and wealth ought to be sure that inequality is as high as they think it is—especially when their policies bring knock-on costs such as deterring risk-taking and investment. By one estimate, Ms Warren’s wealth tax would leave America’s economy 2% smaller after a decade. 

Until these debates are resolved, it would be better for policymakers to stick to more solid ground. The rich world’s housing markets are starving young workers of cash and opportunity; more building is needed in the places that offer attractive jobs. America’s economy needs a revolution in antitrust enforcement to reinvigorate competition. And regardless of trends in inequality, too many high-income workers, including doctors, lawyers and bankers, are protected from competition by needless regulation and licensing, and senseless restrictions on high-skilled immigration, both of which should be loosened. 

Such an agenda would require governments to take on NIMBYS and corporate lobbies. But it would reduce inequality and boost growth. And its benefits do not depend on a set of beliefs about income and wealth that could yet turn out to be wrong. 

***


<h3 id="1.4">Power storage is the missing link in green-energy plans</h3>


SOLAR AND wind power are the [`glamorous`]( "If you describe someone or something as glamorous, you mean that they are more attractive, exciting, or interesting than ordinary people or things. 富有魅力的") twins of the clean-electricity revolution. It is thrilling to see a field of glistening panels absorbing the sun’s energy or a vast turbine twirling above the ocean. Stationary power storage does not have quite the same allure—think of a large metal shed stuffed with piles of big batteries. Nonetheless, the ability to stockpile energy on a massive scale will be of supreme importance if the world is to wean itself off filthy fossil-fuel power plants. The technology is gradually getting cheaper and attracting investment (see article). But more needs to be done to ensure that it sparks. 

To see why storage is important, work backwards from the most common strategy to limit climate change. Plans typically reduce emissions from electricity generation by switching it away from fossil fuels, then electrify other carbon-belching activities, such as driving cars and heating buildings. Abundant, reliable, clean electricity is the foundation on which many green investments and policies rest. And to work well, clean electricity in turn depends on storage. 

Nuclear plants could supply steady clean power, but they attract fierce opposition and are [`beset`](   "If someone or something is beset by problems or fears, they have many problems or fears which affect them severely. 困扰") by cost overruns. Solar and wind are the fastest-growing alternatives. Today they account for 7% of global generation, twice the share in 2013. But the sun does not always shine and the wind may not blow. As the share of intermittent sources rises, so will demand for energy to offset swings in supply. In the short run, dirty coal and gas will have to provide flexibility. Eventually, however, storage must play that role, and the sooner the better. The aim is to capture solar and wind power when it is plentiful and release it as needed. 

Today pumped hydropower is the most common way to store energy. When it is sunny or windy any excess electricity from solar and wind farms can be used to pump water uphill into reservoirs, to be released later to generate hydropower. But lots of places lack mountains, rain and room. Batteries are an alternative. They can smooth jumps and drops in supply and store renewable energy when it is abundant, as in California on a sunny afternoon, and then release it in the evening, when demand rises. They could transform big emerging markets that still plan to expand their use of fossil fuels. The International Energy Agency reckons that, excluding coal projects already planned, batteries have the potential to cut the number of coal plants built in India after 2030 by three-quarters. 

If batteries are to realise their potential, they need to become cheaper and better. Progress is being made. Lithium-ion batteries have become 85% less expensive since 2010, as firms have poured capital into factories to mass-produce batteries for electric vehicles. Investment in storage capacity will hit about $9bn next year, predicts BloombergNEF, a data firm, four times the level in 2017. But technical problems persist. For example, lithium-ion batteries are bad at storing energy for long periods, which is important in countries with rainy seasons. Happily, firms are experimenting (see article). Tycoons, including Jack Ma of Alibaba and Jeff Bezos of Amazon, have invested in startups that are pursuing energy storage using everything from novel battery designs to molten salt to pressurised water pumped underground. 

For firms and capital markets to work their magic, a policy is needed—if only because, more than in other industries, the state sets the rules in power. Vested interests and out-of-date thinking lead to a bias against batteries. Last year America’s energy department granted $28m in research awards for long-term storage—a pittance compared with, say, the $150m the country spent on a tax break for coal royalties. Many places offer subsidies or mandates for wind and solar power, but not for the storage it will depend on to work at its best. 

All too often storage technologies do not enjoy the same access to power grids and customers as dirtier sources of power do. Last year America’s federal electricity regulator ordered the country’s regional power markets to be opened up to storage, but implementation has been [`sluggish`](   "You can describe something as sluggish if it moves, works, or reacts much slower than you would like or is normal. 缓慢的; 迟钝的"). The shift to clean energy will not happen unless it can be more easily stored. It is time for a high-voltage jolt to help an essential technology thrive.

***

<h3 id="1.5">The trading system’s referee is about to leave the field</h3>

ONE WAY of thinking about the world’s trading system is as a sports match featuring a sprawling, brawling international cast of players, each with their own tactics and tricks. The game works best when there is a referee, and for nearly 25 years a group of seven judges at the World Trade Organisation (WTO) has done the job. But on December 11th this body will cease to function, because America is blocking new appointments to it. The referee’s departure will make cross-border commerce `unrulier`<sup>任性的</sup> and, in the long run, invite an anarchy that would make the world poorer. 

The WTO’s appellate body is one of those institutions that most people have never heard of, but which will be missed when it is gone. Set up in 1995, it hears appeals over trade disputes and grants the right to limited retaliation where there has been wrongdoing. Some 164 countries and territories follow its rulings, and the body has prevented some of the nastiest rows from spiralling into outright tariff wars—for example, the epic spat between America and the European Union over subsidies for Boeing and Airbus. Since it was created, it has been the enforcer-of-last-resort for over 500 cases (see article). 

Before 1995 the system was less stable and less fair. The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the WTO’s predecessor, had rules but no judges to enforce them. Big countries had bullying rights. The legal clarity and independence provided by the appellate body is one reason why trade rose from 41% of world GDP in the year before it was created to 58% in 2017. 

The immediate cause of the judges’ downfall is the Trump administration’s refusal to appoint new judges to replace those who are retiring, a symptom of the president’s suspicion of multilateral institutions. But it is a mistake to blame everything on him. The WTO’s troubles expose deeper problems. 

Most countries like independent arbiters, until they suffer a critical ruling. American unease predates Mr Trump. The Bush and Obama administrations tried to influence outcomes by blocking the reappointment of judges. The WTO is also unwieldy. Ideally the rules would be updated every decade or so, giving countries a chance to modernise them and take on judgments they dislike. But the WTO’s membership has doubled since 1995, and because each country has a veto it has been impossible to update the rules to reflect, say, the disruption caused by China’s state-led model (it joined the WTO in 2001). Instead, grumbles have [`festered`](  "If you say that a situation, problem, or feeling is festering, you disapprove of the fact that it is being allowed to grow more unpleasant or full of anger, because it is not being properly recognized or dealt with. 恶化"). 

What happens from December 11th? Some WTO members are trying to concoct an unofficial appellate body, drawing on retired judges, to resolve disputes. A new president elected in 2020 might reverse America’s stance, although several Democratic presidential contenders are [`lukewarm`]( "If you describe a person or their attitude as lukewarm, you mean that they are not showing much enthusiasm or interest. 不热情的; 不感兴趣的") on free trade. 

Most likely, the appellate body will die, or remain dormant for years. If so, expect a deterioration in conduct—Japan and South Korea are already in an ugly spat. Some Americans believe that their country’s size gives them the raw clout to impose rules on others, but it has yet to wrest any big concessions from China. 

Indeed, as the legal framework for trade decays, even America will be vulnerable to escalating tensions. So far, trade frictions have not caused a global recession. But trade has stopped growing and long-term investment by multinational firms dropped by 20% in the first half of this year. If there is a recession, the temptation of `tit-for-tat`<sup>以牙还牙的</sup> tariffs will rise across the world. When the referee leaves the field, anything goes.

***

<h2 id="2">Briefing</h2>

***

<h3 id="2.1">Economists are rethinking the numbers on inequality</h3>

OVER A DECADE before thousands of protesters gathered in Zuccotti Park in New York in 2011, a little-known researcher in France sat down to write about income inequality in a new way. “The focus of our study consists in comparing the evolution of the incomes of the top 10%, the top 1%, the top 0.5%, and so on,” Thomas Piketty wrote in a paper in 1998. With his long-term co-author, Emmanuel Saez, Mr Piketty pioneered the use of tax data over survey data, thereby doing a better job of capturing the incomes of the richest. He revealed that “the 1%” had made out like bandits at the expense of “the 99%”. His research gave Occupy Wall Street its vocabulary. 

What followed was an explosion of research into the causes and consequences of a surge in inequality across the rich world. In “Capital in the Twenty-First Century”, a bestseller first published in 2013, Mr Piketty argued that under capitalism rising inequality was the normal state of affairs. 

Mr Piketty’s research, and more like it, became part of the political discourse in America and much of the West. Two leading candidates for the Democratic nomination for the American presidency, Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders, have proposed taxes on wealth to tackle inequality—pledges cheered on by Mr Saez and Mr Piketty’s other co-author, Gabriel Zucman. In a new book, “Capital and Ideology” (currently available only in French) Mr Piketty calls for a 90% tax on wealth, such is the scale of the inequality crisis. 

Many things have indeed gone wrong with contemporary capitalism. In many countries social mobility is falling; too many companies enjoy excessive market power; and housing is too pricey. All these factors and more also help explain why economic growth in the rich world is weak. 

Yet just as ideas about inequality have completed their march from the academy to the frontlines of politics, researchers have begun to look again. And some are wondering whether inequality has in fact risen as much as claimed—or, by some measures, at all. 

It is fiendishly complicated to calculate how much people earn in a year or the value of the assets under their control, and thus a country’s level of income or wealth inequality. Some people fail to complete government surveys; others undercount income on their tax returns. And defining what counts as “income” is surprisingly difficult, as is valuing assets such as unquoted shares or artwork. Legions of academics, not to mention government officials and researchers in think-tanks, are devoted to unpicking these problems. 

The conventional wisdom to have emerged from these efforts revolves around four main points. First, over a period of four to five decades the incomes of the top 1% have soared. Second, the incomes of middle-earners have stagnated. Third, wages have barely risen even though productivity has done so, meaning that an increasing share of GDP has gone to investors in the form of interest, dividends and capital gains, rather than to labour in the form of wages. Fourth, the rich have reinvested the fruits of their success, such that inequality of wealth (ie, the stock of assets less liabilities such as mortgage debt) has risen, too. 

Each argument has always had its doubters. But they have grown in number as a series of new papers have called the existing estimates of inequality into question. 

Start with top incomes. The idea that they have surged has always been shaky outside America. In Britain the share of after-tax income of the top 1% is no higher than it was in the mid-1990s. Across Europe the ratio of the post-tax income of the top 10% to that of the bottom 50% has changed remarkably little since the mid-1990s, according to Thomas Blanchet of the Paris School of Economics and his colleagues. 

In America the story seemed more solid, based on the analyses of tax data produced by the likes of Messrs Piketty, Saez and Zucman. However, a recent working paper by Gerald Auten and David Splinter, economists at the Treasury and Congress’s Joint Committee on Taxation, respectively, reaches a striking new conclusion. It finds that, after adjusting for taxes and transfers, the income share of America’s top 1% has barely changed since the 1960s (see chart 1). 

They are not the first to have adjusted for taxes and transfers. America’s Congressional Budget Office (CBO) does the same; its statistics show that top incomes rose a lot in the 1980s and 1990s. Typically, after-tax-and-transfer figures are greatly affected by the growing provision of means-tested health insurance. In 1997 the Children’s Health Insurance Programme (CHIP) expanded federal funding for health insurance for many youngsters. In 2014 Barack Obama’s health-care reform expanded eligibility for Medicaid, a health-insurance programme for the poor, in most states. According to the CBO’s data, Medicaid and CHIP account for over 80% of the growth in real-terms means-tested transfers to poor households between 1979 and 2016. 

Messrs Auten and Splinter’s innovation is to correct step-by-step for what they say are a series of errors in the most famous existing inequality estimates. For instance, they change how people are ranked. Messrs Piketty and Saez’s most influential paper, from 2003, was concerned with the top 1% of “tax units”, typically meaning households who file their taxes on a single return. But this introduces a bias. Marriage rates have declined disproportionately among poorer Americans. That increases top-income shares by spreading the incomes of poorer workers over more households, even as the incomes of the top 1% of households remain pooled. Messrs Auten and Splinter therefore rank individuals. 

Another correction concerns the tax reforms passed under Ronald Reagan in 1986. Apparent changes in top incomes around this reform account for about two-fifths of the total increase between 1962 and 2015 in the pre-tax incomes of the top 1% in Messrs Piketty and Saez’s estimates. Messrs Auten and Splinter say this is an illusion. Reagan’s tax reform created strong incentives for firms to operate as “pass-through” entities, where owners register profits as income on their tax returns, rather than sheltering this income inside corporations. Since these incentives did not exist before then, top-income shares before 1987 are liable to be understated. 

Money inside corporations does eventually show up in Messrs Piketty and Saez’s numbers—but possibly in the wrong years. As firms retain earnings (ie, do not pay out their profits as dividends), they become more valuable. When shares in those businesses subsequently change hands, the sellers must therefore report capital gains on their tax returns—something Messrs Piketty and Saez keep track of. 

But capital gains also reflect the chosen timing of the seller and movements in the stockmarket, making them volatile. For these reasons, Messrs Auten and Splinter ignore capital gains and instead count corporations’ retained earnings from year to year. They allocate those earnings to individuals, both before and after the 1986 tax reform, in proportion to their share holdings. And whereas taxable capital gains are concentrated among the rich, workers own lots of shares through their tax-free retirement accounts. 

New methodology introduced by Messrs Piketty, Saez and Zucman in a paper last year ranks by individuals and replaces capital gains with retained corporate earnings. But it still finds the share of pre-tax income of the top 1% to have surged from about 12% in the early 1980s to 20% in 2014. That is because they count a wide array of new income sources. The new methodology tries to trace and allocate every dollar of GDP in order to produce “distributional national accounts”—a project that Mr Zucman hopes will eventually be taken over by government statisticians. It is a tricky exercise because two-fifths of GDP does not show up on individuals’ tax returns. It is either deliberately left untaxed by government or illegally omitted from tax returns by those who file them. 

Allocating this missing GDP to individuals is as much art as it is science (which is why Messrs Piketty and Saez’s original, more conservative method remains influential). How to do it properly is the source of the most important disagreement between the two groups of economists. 

One chunk of missing GDP is found in the pension system as retirement savings grow—often inside tax-free accounts. Broadly, both sets of economists agree that this income should be allocated to individuals in proportion to the size of their pension savings. But the distribution of those savings must itself be estimated. 

Messrs Auten and Splinter say that while attempting this Messrs Piketty, Saez and Zucman mishandle the data. Their alleged error is to identify some flows as retirement income when in fact they are existing savings being shifted—or “rolled over”, in the jargon—between pension accounts. Mr Zucman told The Economist that this error does not in fact exist (and that he disagrees with all of Messrs Auten and Splinter’s adjustments to his work). 

Another chunk of GDP goes missing because of tax `evasion`<sup>回避</sup>. But the two sets of economists disagree about the identity of the perpetrators. Messrs Auten and Splinter rely on the leading study of tax evasion, which was written by Andrew Johns of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and Joel Slemrod of the University of Michigan in 2010. It uses the results of audits from the IRS to estimate tax evasion by income group. At first Messrs Piketty, Saez and Zucman alleged that these figures understate tax evasion by the rich, which they say is too sophisticated for IRS audits to catch. More recently they have written that it is in fact their methods that are most consistent with Messrs Johns and Slemrod’s work. Other economists are generally unwilling to wade in to say who is right. Most just point out that allocating missing income is tricky. Mr Slemrod says he has not yet studied the disagreement. 

In line with the [`prevailing`](    "The prevailing wind in an area is the type of wind that blows over that area most of the time. (风)盛行的") theories on inequality, Messrs Auten and Splinter ultimately find that the top 1% share of pre-tax income has risen since the 1960s, though by less than other estimates. 

But it is inequality in incomes after taxes and benefits that really conveys differences in living standards, and in which Messrs Auten and Splinter find little change. Some economists argue these figures are distorted by the inclusion of Medicaid. But it is hard to deny that the provision of free health care reduces inequality. The question is whether “non-cash benefits” should properly count as income. 

Many of these debates also spill over into criticism of the second part of the conventional wisdom on inequality: that middle incomes have `stagnated`<sup>停滞</sup>. Messrs Piketty, Saez and Zucman argue that the rising share of the top 1% of earners has come at the expense of the bottom 50%. It follows that if the top 1% have not done as well, someone else must have done better. 

Sure enough, just as a wide range of estimates of inequality exist, so too is there an enormous variation in estimates of the long-term growth of middle incomes. A literature review by Stephen Rose of the Urban Institute, a think-tank, describes six possible figures for American real median income growth between 1979 and 2014, ranging from a fall of 8% using Messrs Piketty and Saez’s methodology from 2003 to an increase of 51% using the CBO’s. 

The third part of the conventional thinking on inequality—that productivity growth has `outstripped`<sup>超过</sup> incomes—was a central thesis of Mr Piketty’s bestseller. Indeed, it gave the book its title. He argued that at the top of the income distribution a new rentier class was emerging which made most of its money from investing or inheriting rather than working. That has seemed consistent with data across the rich world showing a rising share of GDP going to capital rather than to workers. But those data are also coming under increasing scrutiny. 

Not long after the publication of “Capital in the Twenty-First Century”, Matthew Rognlie, now of Northwestern University, argued that the rise in America’s capital share was accounted for by growing returns to housing, not by the shares and bonds which are held disproportionately by the top 1% of American households. 

In another paper published in February, another group of economists examine sources of income among the top 1% of American earners. Much of their income comes from pass-through businesses, whose profits are easily mistaken for income from investments. But the authors—Matthew Smith of the Treasury, Danny Yagan of the University of California, Berkeley, Owen Zidar of Princeton and Eric Zwick of the University of Chicago—find that the profits of pass-through firms fall by three-quarters after their owners retire or die, suggesting that most of the earnings depend on labour. Many doctors, lawyers and consultants run pass-through firms—people who should probably be considered self-employed. Including their income in the capital share [`overstates`](  "If you say that someone is overstating something, you mean they are describing it in a way that makes it seem more important or serious than it really is. 夸大") its rise. 

Lately economists have broadened these criticisms internationally. In a recent working paper, Gilbert Cette of the Bank of France, Thomas Philippon of New York University (NYU) and Lorraine Koehl of INSEE in France adjust for distortions in the data caused by self-employment and property income. They find that the labour share has declined in America since 2000, but that there has been no generalised decline among advanced economies. Another working paper by Germán Gutiérrez of NYU and Sophie Piton of the Bank of England finds the same thing (see chart 2). 

The final and fourth part of the conventional wisdom to come under attack concerns wealth inequality, which has long been the most difficult type of inequality to judge. Measures of inequality of any kind tend to suffer from the fact that they do not track individuals, but slices of the population which are made up of different people at different points in time. For individuals a good predictor of high income growth in future is being poor, and vice versa, owing to the statistical phenomenon known as reversion to the mean. 

For example, a study from 2013 by Mr Auten and his Treasury colleagues Geoffrey Gee and Nicholas Turner tracked the incomes of individuals who were aged 35-40 in 1987 over two decades. Median earners in the lowest quintile in 1987 saw their real income grow by 100% over that period, while median earners in the top quintile suffered a 5% fall. Of earners in the top 1% in 2002, fewer than half were in the top 1% five years later. According to research by Thomas Hirschl at Cornell University, 11% of Americans will join the top 1% for at least one year between the ages of 25 and 60. 

With wealth inequality this compositional problem is turned up a notch. Wealth is accumulated as people save for retirement. That means it tends to increase with age, especially during careers, and many people can therefore expect to appear relatively wealthy, on a population-wide measure, at some point in their life. Moreover, the need for poorer individuals to save and accumulate wealth may be lessened by the provision of pensions or public services. That helps explain the puzzle of why socially democratic Sweden appears to have extremely high wealth inequality, and why hardly anyone there seems bothered by it (see article). 

A paper by Messrs Saez and Zucman published in 2016 finds that the wealth share of the top 0.1% of American households rose from 7% in 1978 to 22% in 2012, which is almost as high as it was in 1929. Messrs Saez and Zucman have used their estimates of wealth at the top to project how much revenue the annual wealth taxes proposed by Ms Warren and Mr Sanders would generate. Ms Warren’s wealth tax originally kicked in on fortunes in excess of $50m, and reached 3% on the wealthiest households, generating annual revenue worth 1% of GDP, they said. (Ms Warren has since doubled the top rate.) 

That estimate has attracted substantial criticism. Messrs Saez and Zucman’s paper has come under scrutiny, too. Their wealth estimates are reached in part by studying investment income on tax returns. Within a given category of income, such as equities or “fixed income” investments like bonds, they assume an average rate of return, and use it to impute individuals’ wealth. For example, were the assumed return on an investment 5%, income would be multiplied by 20 to come to an estimate of the investment’s size. 

In a working paper Messrs Smith, Zidar and Zwick expand on this methodology. But they allow for more variation in the assumed rates of return. In particular they cite survey data showing that the returns earned on fixed-income investments differ substantially. For example the bottom 99% say they hold nearly 70% of their fixed-income wealth in bank deposits (which tend to pay little interest). But the figure for the top 0.1% is no more than one-fifth. 

Those with the most fixed-income wealth are more likely to hold corporate bonds, which, because they are riskier, bring higher returns. A higher yield means researchers need to use a smaller number to multiply up to estimate wealth. When interest rates are low, as they have been in recent years, this can make a big difference. A return assumption of 1%, for example, generates an estimate of wealth that is only half as large as a return assumption of 0.5% (whereas a difference between 4.5% and 5% would matter much less). 

Making this change, and also some other adjustments, such as to account properly for pass-through businesses, Messrs Smith, Zidar and Zwick construct a new ranking of households by wealth in which the share of the top 0.1% is only 15%. More significantly, they find that the rise in top wealth shares since 1980 falls by half. Messrs Saez and Zucman dispute their assumptions. But at the very least the debate shows how tricky it is to estimate wealth, and how sensitive estimates are to changes in assumptions about uncertain factors. And that makes the revenue that any wealth tax would raise equally uncertain. 

Few dispute that wealth shares at the top have risen in America, nor that the increase is driven by fortunes at the very top, among people who really can be considered an elite. The question, instead, is by just how much. 

Internationally, the picture is `murkier`<sup>阴暗的</sup>. According to Daniel Waldenström of the Research Institute of Industrial Economics, in Stockholm, good data on the distribution of wealth exist for only three countries beside America—Britain, Denmark and France. In these places it is difficult to discern any clear trends in inequality over the past few decades (see chart 3). One study from Katrine Jakobsen of the University of Copenhagen and co-authors (including Mr Zucman) finds that the wealth share of the top 1% in Denmark rose in the 1980s but has remained fairly constant since then. In France whether or not wealth inequality appears to be rising depends on whether you track capital income or inheritances, says Mr Waldenström. 

Will this flurry of new research change people’s minds about inequality? That will depend, ultimately, on which scholars prevail as economists thrash out the various debates. There is plenty of room to improve the data, meaning Messrs Piketty, Saez and Zucman’s critics may yet be proven wrong themselves. And even if inequality has not risen by as much as many people think, the gap between rich and poor could still be dispiritingly high. 

While that long and bloody academic battle takes place it would be wise for policymakers to proceed cautiously. Proposals for much heavier taxes on high earners, or a tax on net wealth, or the far more radical plans outlined in Mr Piketty’s latest book, are responses to a problem that is only partially understood.

***

<h3 id="2.2">In Sweden, billionaires are surprisingly popular</h3>

AS IS PERHAPS appropriate for the country which produced the song “Money, Money, Money”, Sweden has one billionaire for every 250,000 people, one of the highest rates in the world. It is also one of the world’s most unequal countries in terms of the distribution of wealth. An estimate from The Economist finds that the value of Swedish billionaires’ fortunes is equivalent to a quarter of the country’s annual GDP. Only in tax havens such as Cyprus or Monaco, or captured economies such as Russia or Georgia, are `plutocrats`<sup>富豪</sup> more dominant. 

Yet among ordinary Swedes, billionaires are surprisingly popular. “Only the royal family, Astrid Lindgren, Abba and Bjorn Borg could compete in popularity,” wrote one newspaper in 2018 on the death of Ingvar Kamprad, the founder of Ikea. Talk of levying harsh taxes on the wealthy is met with a shrug. “The debate that you have in America or Britain about taxing the super-rich just doesn’t exist here,” says Janerik Larsson of Timbro, a free-market think-tank. 

The popularity of billionaires is partly owing to the perception that they have made their money not by exploiting ordinary Swedes, but by creating multinationals such as H&M, Volvo and Spotify. They are also relatively modest. Even on posh streets there are few fancy cars; rich people eat Smørrebrød in popular restaurants along with everybody else. Many rich families set up foundations to dispense vast sums to good causes. The offices of the Wallenberg Foundations, linked to one of Sweden’s most powerful dynasties, are in a [`nondescript`]( "If you describe something or someone as nondescript, you mean that their appearance is rather dull, and not at all interesting or attractive. 毫无特色的; 毫无兴趣的; 毫无吸引力的") building in Stockholm (though this week the family defended its bank amid allegations of money-laundering). 

If surprisingly few Swedes [`hanker`](  "If you hanker after something, you want it very much. 渴望") for punitive taxes on the rich, that is also because many have concluded that they do not work. Sweden introduced wealth taxation in 1911, followed by three big increases in 1934, 1948 and 1971. By the early 1980s Swedes with a household wealth of about $600,000 (in today’s prices) faced a marginal tax rate of 4%. Combined with heavy taxation of income, the effective tax rate on investment exceeded 100% in some cases. 

Despite these punitive rates, wealth taxation only made a minor contribution to Sweden’s generous welfare state—at most during the post-war period, it raised 0.4% of GDP. From the 1970s onwards its popularity waned. Kamprad fled to Switzerland in 1973; Hans Rausing, whose father founded Tetra Pak, a packaging firm (and who died earlier this year), escaped to Britain in the 1980s. By that decade “people could with impunity evade the tax,” argue Magnus Henrekson and Gunnar Du Rietz, two economists, not least because of the relaxation of foreign-exchange controls in 1989. 

The inclusion of various exemptions—including the exemption of holdings of land and forest from 1991—increased the complexity of the administration of the tax. With bipartisan support, Sweden abolished the inheritance tax in 2005 and the wealth tax in 2007. Before long, Kamprad returned. 

***

<h2 id="3">Science and technology</h2>

***

<h3 id="3.1">A new theory argues same-sex sexual behaviour is an evolutionary norm</h3>

WHEN IT COMES to sexual behaviour, the animal kingdom is a broad church. Its members indulge in a wide variety of activities, including with creatures of the same sex. Flying foxes gather in all-male clusters to lick each other’s erect penises. Male Humboldt squid have been found with sperm-containing sacs implanted in and around their sexual organs in similar quantities to female squid. Female snow macaques often pair off to form temporary sexual relationships that includes mounting and pelvic thrusting. Same-sex sexual behaviour has been recorded in some 1,500 animal species. 

The mainstream explanations in evolutionary biology for these behaviours are many and varied. Yet they all contain a common assumption: that sexual behaviours involving members of the same sex are a paradox that does indeed need explaining. Reproduction requires mating with a creature of the opposite sex, so why does same-sex mating happen at all? 

A paper just published in Nature Ecology and Evolution offers a different approach. Instead of regarding same-sex behaviour as an evolutionary [`oddity`](  "An oddity is someone or something that is very strange. 怪人; 怪事") emerging from a normal baseline of different-sex behaviour, the authors suggest that it has been a norm since the first animals came into being. The common ancestor of all animals alive today, humans included, did not, they [`posit`](    "If you posit something, you suggest or assume it as the basis for an argument or calculation. 假定; 假设"), have the biological equipment needed to discern the sex of others of its species. Rather, it would have exhibited indiscriminate sexual behaviour—and this would have been good enough to transmit its genes to the next generation. 

The group of young researchers from institutions across America who wrote the paper, led by Julia Monk, a graduate student at Yale, argue that conventional models of sexual behaviour’s evolution take two things for granted that they should not. The first is that the cost of same-sex behaviour is high because energy and time spent engaged in it do not contribute to reproductive success. If that were true it would indeed mean that maintenance of same-sex behaviour over the generations requires some exotic explanation whereby such activity confers benefits that outweigh the disadvantage. The second assumption is that same-sex activity evolved separately in every species that exhibits it, from an ancestral population that engaged [`exclusively`](    "Exclusively is used to refer to situations or activities that involve only the thing or things mentioned, and nothing else. 排他地; 独占地") in different-sex behaviour. 

Ms Monk and her co-authors question the first assumption by pointing out that many animals seem to mate at a frequency far higher than looks necessary merely to reproduce—meaning that the proportional costs of any instance of sexual activity which does not produce offspring must be low. If this is true, it reverses the burden of proof. The cost of the sensory and neurological mechanisms needed to identify another’s sex, and thus permit sex-discriminating mating behaviour, is high. Sometimes, that will be a price worth paying, especially if a long-term relationship is involved in reproduction, as it is in most birds and some mammals. But it is the evolution of sex-discrimination for which special-case `exemptions`<sup>免除</sup> must be sought, not the evolution of same-sex behaviour. 

The second assumption is even easier to challenge. Typically, evolutionary biologists assume that traits shared widely across a related group are likely to have evolved in an ancestral population, not repeatedly and separately in each lineage. Ms Monk and her colleagues argue that cognitive biases in the subject’s practitioners have pushed them to look for fantastic explanations for the evolution of same-sex behaviours in a range of animals, rather than considering the perhaps more reasonable explanation for its persistence, that it is a low-cost ancestral trait that has little evolutionary reason to disappear. 

Although the idea that same-sex behaviour has always been a norm is scientifically intriguing, the paper’s authors are also making a broader point about human beings’ pursuit of knowledge. Ms Monk says that the paper’s authors met through a Twitter account which promotes the work of LGBT scientists. This was a [`serendipitous`](  "A serendipitous event is one that is not planned but has a good result. 有意外收获的") encounter which gave them space to explore an idea that might have been dismissed at first sight in a more conventional setting. The group includes people with a range of sexual orientations, so naturally they had an incentive to ask whether mainstream evolutionary biology’s view of sexual orientation is correct. 

Their hypothesis still needs testing. That will mean zoologists gathering more observational data on sexual behaviour of animals in the wild—and doing so with an open mind. The authors themselves are also mulling approaches involving computer modelling, which might show that a group of organisms behaving according to their theory is capable of reaching the distribution of sexual behaviours seen in the wild today. If their hypothesis is confirmed, it raises the question of which other facets of scientific knowledge might be being obscured because the backgrounds of practitioners in those fields do not lead them to ask unconventional questions. Ms Monk’s and her colleagues’ theory may yet turn notions of the evolution of animal sexual behaviour on their head. With a broader array of minds focused on other problems, other fields might follow, too.

***

<h3 id="3.2">An emergency landing system that passengers can activate</h3>

ON NOVEMBER 9TH 2018 a Piper Dakota light aircraft flying over Iowa broadcast a distress call. The pilot seemed to have suffered a heart attack. One of the other three people on board, a student aviator, had taken over the controls, but to no avail. The plane crashed shortly afterwards, killing all four. 

How often such things happen is not well recorded. But an Australian report published in 2016 listed 15 cases in the five years from 2010 to 2014 of the pilots of small aircraft being [`incapacitated`](  "If something incapacitates you, it weakens you in some way, so that you cannot do certain things. 使...能力变弱; 使伤残"). In three of these the aircraft suffered what is known `euphemistically`<sup>委婉地</sup> in aviation circles as a “collision with terrain”. Occasionally, an instructor on the ground, perhaps assisted by a pilot flying alongside in another aircraft, has been able to provide an instant flying lesson to someone on board a plane that has lost its pilot, and talk them down successfully. But not often. It is tricky enough for a neophyte to keep an aircraft flying straight, level and on an appropriate bearing to arrive at a suitable airfield. Landing the thing safely takes a miracle. What small aircraft need in these circumstances is a panic button. And a firm called Garmin has now created one. 

Garmin, a Swiss-registered, American-operated technology company, is best know for its GPS satellite-based navigation systems. But the firm also makes electronic control systems for aircraft. Autoland, as they dub the kit attached to their panic button, is a result of putting the two together. 

Pressing the button switches control of the plane to its flight computers, in a manner similar to engaging an autopilot. Garmin’s system, however, goes far beyond being a standard autopilot. It transmits an emergency radio code to alert air-traffic control and other planes in the area. It analyses weather conditions, winds and the amount of fuel available before selecting a suitable airfield to divert to. It then flies to that airport, descends, lines up on the runway, sets the flaps and lowers the landing gear. As it approaches touchdown, it crabs the plane slightly sideways to cope with any crosswinds and aligns the nose with the centre of the runway, just as a human pilot would. Once landed, it applies the brakes to bring the plane to a halt. It then turns the engine off. 

Passengers are kept informed about what is happening via messages on a screen and voice announcements. They are advised not to touch the controls, but to sit back and fasten their seat belts. Simplified buttons that appear on a touchscreen let them operate the radio and talk to air-traffic controllers directly. 

After around 1,000 successful test landings, Autoland is now going into service. It is about to become a standard feature on the Piper M600/SLS, a six-seater single-engined turboprop, and the Cirrus Vision Jet, a single-engined personal jet. Other aircraft are expected to follow. And Garmin is also looking at making a version which could be employed in smaller planes, such as those used at flying clubs. 

Eventually, a beefier variant might also be developed for jet airliners. Though these operate with a co-pilot to backup the captain, there have been instances of both pilots being taken ill—for instance with hypoxia caused by insufficient oxygen. In such a case a member of the cabin crew or a passenger might be able to switch the system on. Alternatively, it could be activated automatically or remotely. 

If an unsupervised system like this can fly and land an aircraft in an emergency, it does raise the question of why it should not do so routinely. Bailey Scheel, the manager of the project is firm that, for the moment, Autoland is purely an emergency system. Nevertheless, it does look like another step on the road to dropping the co-pilot—and eventually the pilot, too.

***

<h3 id="3.3">Electrical energy can be captured as liquid air</h3>


IN THE PAST few decades wind and solar power have gone from being exotic technologies to quotidian pieces of engineering that are competitive, joule for joule, with fossil fuels. Those fuels retain what edge they have only because of their reliability. The wind may not blow, or the sun may not shine, but—short of a blockade or strike—a coal or gas power station will always have something to burn. 

To overcome the reliability problem requires cheap grid-scale energy storage that can be scaled up indefinitely. At the moment, the market leader is the lithium-ion battery (see article). Such batteries—already the workhorse of applications from mobile phones to electric cars—are reliable, scalable and well understood. Most proposed alternatives are `clumsy`<sup>笨拙的</sup>, poorly understood, unscalable or all three. But there is one that, because it relies on putting together pieces of engineering used routinely elsewhere, and thus proven to work, might give lithium-ion batteries a run for their money: liquid air. 

At a temperature of -196°C, all of air’s component gases will liquefy. Doing this is a routine, electrically driven industrial procedure. Storing liquefied gases in bulk is also a routine piece of engineering. The result occupies a 700th of the volume of those gases at room temperature—so, when liquid air is warmed and allowed to expand, it does so forcefully. Using a device called a Dearman engine (after its inventor, a Briton named Peter Dearman), that forceful expansion can be employed to spin turbines, and thus generators, thereby recovering part of the electricity used to liquefy the air in the first place. 

Such `cryogenic`<sup>低温学的</sup> energy storage’s main `proponent`<sup>支持者</sup>, a firm in London called Highview Power, has been running a pilot grid-scale plant in Bury, near Manchester, since April 2018. This can store 15 megawatt-hours (MW-hr) of energy, which is enough to power about 5,000 homes for three hours. 

At the moment, the plant in Bury recovers as electricity just over half of the power used to liquefy the air in the first place. With design tweaks, that could probably be increased to 60%. Moreover, the technology’s inventor, Ding Yulong, sees a path to yet greater efficiency. As head of an energy-storage group at the University of Birmingham, Dr Ding has spent years experimenting with a small test plant. The trick, he says, is to capture, probably in oil or salt, the heat generated as the air is compressed prior to its liquefaction. Some of this heat can then be used to boost the warming of the liquid air as it enters the Dearman engine. This adds oomph to the expansion, thereby increasing the power output. 

The rest of the heat from the compression can be used to power a piece of refrigeration kit called an absorption chiller. The cold this chiller creates would reduce the amount of electricity needed to liquefy the air in the first place. Dr Ding reckons that recycling waste heat in this way will increase the efficiency of [`biggish`]( "Something that is biggish is fairly big. 颇大的") cryogenic-energy-storage plants to at least 69%. That is close to the figure obtained by banks of lithium-ion batteries. 

Having proved the technology, and raised the money to do so, the firm now plans to build a commercial-scale British plant. According to Highview’s boss, Javier Cavada, this will have almost twice the storage capacity of the world’s largest existing lithium-ion battery, the Hornsdale Power Reserve in South Australia, which can `squirrel`<sup>贮藏</sup> away a mere 129MW-hr (though Hornsdale has a maximum power output of 100MW, which is twice that of Highview’s proposal). Construction should begin early next year at an as-yet-[`undisclosed`](  "Undisclosed information is not revealed to the public. 保密的; 未公开的") site in northern England. 

Over the next two years Highview also hopes to announce additional 250MW-hr plants, including two it plans to build in America for Tenaska, an energy company in Nebraska. And Enel Group, Italy’s largest electricity firm, is interested as well. According to Gianluca Gigliucci, who is leading Enel’s study of the technology, the company will soon build a grid-scale plant if the business case for doing so appears at least reasonable. 

To take on lithium-ion batteries in a serious way cryo-batteries—as Highview dubs the technology—will have to show that they are able to respond rapidly to fluctuating demand in the way lithium-ion cells can. They will also have to be able to match, in future, the fall in price over the years that such cells show every sign of continuing to demonstrate. If they can do these things, though, they could well emerge as competitors in the grid-scale-storage stakes.

***

<h3 id="3.4">How ear bones evolved</h3>


EVOLUTION HAS NO foresight. But occasionally it flukes something ideally suited to develop into something else. Biologists call this preadaptation, and it seems to explain the existence of three small bones, known as ossicles, that are found in the ears of mammals. Ossicles evolved from jaw bones, and the fossil evidence indicates this happened three times. That suggests the bones in question were indeed preadapted. And a newly discovered Cretaceous mammal called Jeholbaatar kielanae may help explain why. An analysis of the creature’s jaw (pictured, with the ossicles enclosed in the white square) has just been published in Nature by Wang Yuanqing of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and his colleagues. It suggests that the ossicles’ `precursors`<sup>先驱</sup> became detached from the other jaw bones as a result of the way, indicated by the shape of those other bones, that Jeholbaatar kielanae chewed its food. Thus liberated, they were then absorbed into the ear and repurposed to enhance the animal’s hearing. 

***
<h3 id="3.5">Male nightingales spend the winter practising</h3>


DESPITE THE ideas of Julia Monk and her colleagues on the frequency and normality of same-sex mating behaviour among animals (see article), some species do work hard to attract the opposite sex. That is why birdsong fills the air during the spring and summer breeding season. What has proved `vexing`<sup>烦恼的</sup> to ornithologists is understanding why birds that migrate to warmer climes in winter often carry on singing even though there is no breeding to be done and no need to defend a territory. But a study just published in Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology by Abel Souriau of Charles University in Prague and Nicole Geberzahn of the University of Paris, Nanterre, casts light on the matter. Mr Souriau and Dr Geberzahn suggest that winter is a period of practice for the summer performance to come. 

Thrush nightingales are close kin to the common nightingale familiar in western Europe, but have a more easterly summer range. Males are innovative songsters, frequently `plagiarising`<sup>抄袭</sup> phrases from rivals and integrating them into their own tunes. They are also among the birds that carry on singing after they have migrated to Africa for the winter. So Mr Souriau and Dr Geberzahn decided to study the nature of their African songs. 

First, they themselves flew south, to a part of Tanzania that previous work had shown to be a place where populations from two summer nesting grounds—one in Poland, the other near Moscow—spent their winters. They recorded thrush nightingales there and then, later, recorded them in those summer grounds as well, to provide a baseline for comparison. With both sets of recordings in the bag, they ran an analysis of what they had collected. 

Bird song is divided by ornithologists into a hierarchy of notes, syllables (composites of notes), phrases (composites of syllables) and songs (composites of phrases). Mr Souriau and Dr Geberzahn were interested, in particular, in the syllabic and phraseological structure of songs. 

In Europe the males sing according to a particular template. The first part of a song lets them show off their [`virtuosity`](  "The virtuosity of someone such as an artist or athlete is their great skill. (如艺术家或运动员的)高超技巧"). This cadenza varies from male to male and, for a given male, from song to song. Nevertheless, males’ [`propensity`](  "A propensity to do something or a propensity for something is a natural tendency to behave in a particular way. (行为) 倾向") to pinch snatches from their neighbours means the songs sung in one locality are distinguishable from those in another. The second and third parts are two stereotypical phrases, known as “castanet” and “rattling”, that mark the end of a particular song. 

As the researchers expected, the recordings they collected in Europe followed these patterns. But those from Africa did not. Around 90% of them were abnormal in one way or another. Their structures were extremely variable—chaotic, almost, with castanet and rattling often absent. And they often included syllables not found in summer songs. 

That the birds are singing at all in Africa needs explanation, for singing consumes energy which might be deployed for other purposes. The explanation Mr Souriau and Dr Geberzahn propose is that male thrush nightingales employ the winter months as a period of experimentation and `rehearsal`<sup>排练</sup> for the summer. They can try out new singing techniques with little consequence, and perhaps gain an edge early in the next breeding season, before their neighbours can plagiarise them. 

Whether these winter rehearsals really do result in songs that are better at repelling rivals and luring mates remains to be discovered. To find out would mean tracking a fair number of individuals over their entire lives, to monitor both the evolution of their songs and how their mating success varies accordingly. But apparently effortless superiority is usually the result of a lot of hidden hard work. In the case of thrush nightingales, it seems quite plausible that the European former is a consequence of the African latter.


***

<h3 id="3.6">Slowly, HIV is being beaten</h3>

ON THE PRINCIPLE that no news is good news, the fact that AIDS has dropped out of the headlines is surely a good thing. Nevertheless, it does no harm for the world to be reminded from time to time that the illness has not gone away. To that end, UNAIDS and the World Health Organisation, the international agencies charged with dealing with the epidemic, promote December 1st as World AIDS Day. 

This year is the last before the target date for the success of the latest of the agencies’ campaigns to roll out the antiretroviral drugs that both keep those already infected with HIV alive and stop them passing the virus on. This particular campaign is called 90-90-90. Its aims are that, by the end of 2020, 90% of all those around the world who are infected will know they are infected; 90% of that group will be receiving sustained antiretroviral therapy; and 90% of those receiving therapy will have had the virus effectively suppressed. 

The 90-90-90 campaign follows the 3 by 5 initiative, begun in 2003, to put 3m people on the drugs by 2005, and the subsequent target of 15 by 15. The latest estimate is that 38m people are infected with HIV, so 90-90-90 implies 28m being treated successfully. As the chart shows, doing this by 2020 is unlikely. Whether that is seen as a failure, though, depends on your point of view. Had the target been reached easily is would surely have been criticised as unambitious. 

Regardless of when 90-90-90 is achieved the next aim, 95-95-95, is already pencilled in for 2030. This is also the year set by the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals for the end of AIDS as a public health threat. 

The exact meaning of that phrase is unclear. But in principle `eliminating`<sup>根除</sup> HIV is possible with existing technology. As has happened with smallpox and polio, the identification and treatment of all who are infected would stop new cases arising. The slogans for this are “zero new HIV infections”, “zero AIDS-related deaths” and (AIDS being an illness that has always been surrounded by prejudice) “zero discrimination”. 

Unlike smallpox and polio, however, there is no vaccine against HIV. If this state of affairs continues, eliminating the virus will mean giving drugs to all those infected until they have died of other causes. It will also mean someone paying for those drugs. And, in the case of those living in the poorest parts of the world, that “someone” is often going to be taxpayers in rich countries, who already contribute about $8bn a year to the anti-AIDS effort. Exterminating HIV, then, will be a huge undertaking and an expensive one. But not, with luck, an impossible one.

***

<h2 id="4">The world this week</h2>

***
<h3 id="4.1">Business this week</h3>

In the biggest-ever takeover in the luxury-goods industry, LVMH, a French global conglomerate, announced its acquisition of Tiffany, an American jeweller founded in 1837 and known for its flagship store on Fifth Avenue in New York. LVMH is paying $16.9bn, more than the roughly $14.5bn that was suggested when the transaction was first mooted in late October. The deal represents a success for Bernard Arnault, LVMH’s boss and controlling shareholder, who had courted Tiffany for some time. See article. 

The flotation of Alibaba’s shares on the Hong Kong stockmarket raised $11.2bn, making it the most valuable share offering this year, ahead of the $8.1bn that Uber raked in at its IPO in May. The stock rose by 6.6% on the first day of trading in what is a secondary listing in Alibaba. Its shares are also listed in New York. See article. 

Uber lost its licence to operate in London, again. The ride-hailing company has 45,000 drivers in the city, one of its biggest markets. London’s transport regulator raised more concerns about safety, including 14,000 [`fraudulent`](    "A fraudulent activity is deliberately deceitful, dishonest, or untrue. 欺骗性的") trips by unauthorised drivers. Uber is appealing against the decision and can continue to operate while it does so. See article. 

The chief executive of Westpac resigned and the chairman said he would step down next year, as Australia’s second-largest bank faced mounting criticism about its response to a money-laundering scandal. A regulator has accused Westpac of failing to monitor more than 23m suspect transactions, some of which enabled child exploitation in the Philippines. The bank has found itself in politicians’ cross-hairs. Australia’s treasurer said it had been indifferent to the scandal; the attorney-general noted that it was an “unbelievably serious” matter. Westpac has reportedly cancelled its Christmas party. 

Charles Schwab, America’s biggest discount broker, struck a $26bn deal to acquire  td Ameritrade, a rival. The pair had recently been engaged in a price war, both ditching the transaction fees they charged customers. The combined group will have around $5trn in client assets. See article. 

The Brazilian real fell to a new low against the dollar, after Brazil’s finance minister said he was “not worried” about a strong greenback. The slide prompted a brief intervention by the central bank to [`prop up`](    "To prop up something means to support it or help it to survive. 支撑; 维持") the currency. The country’s current-account deficit has risen sharply this year, and interest rates have tumbled. 

Google reportedly fired four employees who had been active in organising protests at the company and had apparently tried to gain access to private internal documents. The tech giant pioneered an office culture that mixes politics with work, which it may now regret. Vociferous staff have pressed management to drop an AI contract for the Pentagon and have walked out over sexual harassment and a search-engine project for the Chinese government. Their latest gripe is Google’s work for immigration enforcement. Google has told employees to tone it down and reduced staff meetings to one a month. 

In an effort to boost profits and its feeble share price, Telefónica announced a plan to hive off its operations in Spanish-speaking Latin America and focus on its core markets in Spain, Brazil, Germany and Britain, where it brands itself as O2. The telecoms group also wants to expand its business in the internet of things and cloud computing. 

On the lookout for new superdrugs that will replenish its portfolio, Novartis offered to buy The Medicines Company for $9.7bn. TMC’s crown jewel is inclisiran, a treatment that has been found to be highly effective in drug trials at reducing “bad” cholesterol, and which a patient needs to inject only twice a year. See article. 

America’s Federal Aviation Administration said it alone would inspect the 737 MAX before it is returned to service, relieving Boeing of the exercise and signalling that it will sign off each jet individually. That could potentially extend the time frame that Boeing has in mind for resuming deliveries of the grounded aircraft to airlines. 

Tesla’s share price struggled to recover from the drubbing it took after an unforeseen event at the launch of its new Cybertruck, which has been described as a cross between a futuristic car from “Blade Runner” and a SpongeBob SquarePants character. The vehicle’s supposedly armoured-glass windows shattered when a steel ball was hurled at them during a demonstration. “Maybe that was a little too hard,” said a startled Elon Musk, Tesla’s boss. 

Lee Sedol, a Go champion, who in 2016 lost a celebrated match against AlphaGo, an artificial-intelligence program, announced his retirement. AI programs now compete in tournaments. Mr Lee reflected: “Even if I become number one, there is an entity that cannot be defeated.”

***

<h3 id="4.2">Politics this week</h3>

Opposition candidates won a [`stunning`](   "A stunning event is extremely unusual or unexpected. 令人震惊的") victory in Hong Kong’s local elections, a result that activists claimed as an endorsement of protesters’ demands for full democracy. A record turnout saw 3m voters go to the polls. Carrie Lam, the territory’s [`beleaguered`](    "A beleaguered person, organization, or project is experiencing a lot of difficulties, opposition, or criticism. 饱经曲折的") leader, promised to “seriously reflect” on the outcome. China warned America of “firm counter-measures” in response to Donald Trump’s signing of two bills showing support for democracy in Hong Kong. See article. 

China has 276 embassies and other diplomatic offices, more than any other country, according to the Lowy Institute, a think-tank. It passed America, which has 273, this year. France, Japan and Russia took the next three spots on the list. 

The BJP chief minister of Maharashtra, India’s second- most-populous state, resigned after holding office for just three days, when the supreme court said he must face a vote of confidence. He had, in effect, been installed in the job by the national BJP-led government in Delhi following a contentious election in October and political `shenanigans`<sup>恶作剧</sup> to form a coalition. See article. 

Trade unions and student groups have led large protests and two national strikes in Colombia. Their complaints include proposals by the government to raise the pension age and the slow implementation of a peace deal with the FARC guerrilla group. A student was killed by a tear-gas canister, increasing the anger. 

Luis Lacalle Pou, a candidate of the centre-right, apparently won Uruguay’s presidential election. His narrow victory, if confirmed by the country’s electoral court, will end 15 years of rule by the centre-left Broad Front coalition. Mr Lacalle Pou has promised to fight crime and slash the government’s large deficit. 

Britain’s chief rabbi, Ephraim Mirvis, expressed concerns about what a Labour government led by Jeremy Corbyn might mean for Jewish people. He said the party’s claim that it had investigated every allegation of anti-Semitism among its members was a “mendacious fiction”. In a TV interview Mr Corbyn repeatedly failed to apologise for his failure to deal with the problem. See article. 

Britain’s political parties published their manifestos for the forthcoming election. Labour promised an additional £83bn ($107bn) of day-to-day spending by 2024 (around 4% of GDP). The Liberal Democrats would have a surplus, despite splashing out more than £50bn a year. The Tories were the stingiest, promising just an additional £3bn. All parties would take government spending to over 40% of GDP, reversing a decade-long trend of shrinking the state. See article. 

Malta was rocked by a spate of high-level resignations, two years after the murder of a journalist who had been investigating corruption on the island. The tourism and economy ministers stood down. The prime minister’s chief of staff was arrested. See article. 

The European Parliament voted to confirm the new European Commission, which will now take office under its president, Ursula von der Leyen. Britain declined to nominate a commissioner, but the process moved ahead anyway. See article. 

Israel’s prime minister, Binyamin Netanyahu, faced a challenge to his leadership after being charged with bribery, fraud and breach of trust in three corruption cases. Mr Netanyahu called the indictment an “attempted coup”. But Gideon Saar, a high-ranking member of Mr Netanyahu’s own Likud party, said the prime minister should go. See article. 

The authorities in Egypt raided the offices of Mada Masr, the last big independent media voice in the country. Since taking power in a coup in 2013, President Abdel-Fattah al-Sisi has cracked down on dissent and free speech. Mada Masr, an online publication, had recently published an article criticising Mr Sisi’s son, who is a senior intelligence official. See article. 

Several people, including health workers combating the Ebola virus, were killed in protests in the Democratic Republic of Congo amid rising public anger directed at the UN’S peacekeeping mission over its inability to protect civilians from Islamist rebels. Their latest attack killed at least 19 people. 

Tanzania’s ruling party won 99% of the seats it contested in local elections that were boycotted by the opposition, which accused the government of manipulation. The local poll is a worrying prelude to national elections next year. The government has locked up members of the opposition and journalists. 

A collision between two helicopters in Mali killed 13 French troops fighting jihadists in the Sahel. The incident was the single biggest loss of life suffered by the French armed forces since the 1980s. 

Michael Bloomberg belatedly entered the race to be the Democrats’ presidential candidate, joining a contest that has been hostile to billionaires. He spent $31m on TV ads in just one week, a record. Although Mr Bloomberg has toyed with running for president before, this is his first official campaign. He is pursuing a risky strategy, not campaigning in the early primary states in order to focus on `delegate-rich`<sup>无可厚非的</sup> Super Tuesday in March. See article. 

The Trump administration ousted the secretary of the navy, Richard Spencer, in a row over a navy SEAL who had been convicted of taking a picture next to a dead jihadist in Iraq and threatened with expulsion from the service. Ostensibly, Mr Spencer was fired for not telling Mark Esper, the defence secretary, about his dealings with the White House. But the top brass are furious with Donald Trump for reinstating the disgraced SEAL’s rank. See article. 

A federal judge ruled that senior advisers to Mr Trump must comply with subpoenas issued by committees conducting an impeachment inquiry into the president, and ordered Don McGahn, a former White House counsel, to testify to Congress. “Presidents are not kings,” said the judge. The administration is to appeal against the ruling. See article. 

***
<h2 id="5">Business</h2>

***

<h3 id="5.1">Encouraging “purposeful” business</h3>


REINVENTING CAPITALISM is all the rage. The British Academy, a scholarly body, issued a provocative report in 2018 arguing for the replacement of profit-focused shareholder capitalism with a system in which corporations embrace social purpose. A follow-up manifesto published on November 27th tries to explain how to do this. But fixing capitalism is easier said than done. 

The report lays out eight principles to guide implementation of corporate purpose. These range from changing laws and regulations to improving metrics and governance. Some are sensible. Establishing common standards for measuring social impact would be a vast improvement over the current hotch-potch of competing (and often misleading) measures of how firms fare on environmental, social and governance matters. Ideas for reforming corporate governance, including improving board accountability, are useful. 

Some ideas are problematic or [`downright`](    "You use downright to emphasize unpleasant or bad qualities or behaviour. (强调不快或负面事物) 彻头彻尾地") barmy. The report makes the extraordinary claim that “ownership does not relate to the assets of a firm but to its purposes”. The experts insist that every company must by law have a purpose “that is not solely about profit”. So would strategies that maximised profits become illegal, unless they also solved poverty or climate change? And which of those goals would the purpose police deem more worthwhile? There is only passing mention of the sorts of trade-offs that bosses must make between the competing claims of rival stakeholders. 

The report is heavy on “should do” recommendations and light on incentives needed to achieve those goals, notes Luigi Zingales of the University of Chicago. He argues that forcing firms to have a social purpose is an unjustifiable infringement of freedom. Making bosses come up with [`cuddly`](  "A cuddly person or animal makes you want to cuddle them. 令人想拥抱的") corporate-purpose statements is likely to produce a swarm of [`platitudes`](   "A platitude is a statement that is considered meaningless and boring because it has been made many times before in similar situations. 陈词滥调"). 

The report notes that the corporate purpose of Novo Nordisk, a Danish drugs firm, is to “drive change to defeat diabetes and other serious chronic diseases”. The Academy applauds the firm’s use of the Future-Fit Business Benchmark, a tool for assessing governance. Sadly, these virtues did not prevent it from charging outrageous prices for its insulin in America, leading to lawsuits and congressional inquiries. The firm denies wrongdoing. In September it responded to public outrage by offering cheaper insulin to American diabetics—but only after Eli Lilly and Sanofi, rival drugs giants, had done so first. 

The academy’s clear-headed first report asked important questions about the role of business in society. Its [`muddled`](   "If someone is muddled, they are confused about something. 糊涂的") follow-up (which Mr Zingales describes as “something in between policy prescription and a self-help book”) seems destined to end up as a doorstop. 

***
<h3 id="5.2">Huawei keeps on going</h3>

“GENUINELY FRIGHTENED” by Huawei. That was the [`verdict`]( "Someone's verdict on something is their opinion of it, after thinking about it or investigating it. 判断") of Wilbur Ross, America’s commerce secretary, delivered recently to an audience of diplomats. The Chinese tech giant is the world’s biggest supplier of mobile-network equipment. American officials worry that it could use that position for electronic spying or `sabotage`<sup>破坏</sup> on behalf of Beijing. 

With that in mind, in May Mr Ross’s department placed Huawei on the “entity list”, restricting the ability of American firms to do business with it. Many analysts expected the results to be painful. Huawei spends more than $10bn a year on buying software, processors and the like from American firms. So far, though, the pain has failed to materialise. Sales of Huawei’s smartphones, which can no longer ship with Google’s popular apps, have flatlined outside China. But on the whole, the firm seems in robust health. On October 16th it announced revenues of 611bn yuan ($89bn) for the first nine months of 2019, up by 24% year-on-year. It said it had signed over 60 contracts to install zippy 5G phone networks around the world. 

Two things explain that resilience. The first is that enforcement has been less fierce than feared. On the same day that Mr Ross was describing his fears, his department issued its first set of licences permitting some American companies to restart sales to Huawei. Among the licensees was Microsoft, whose Windows operating system is used in Huawei’s laptops. 

The second is that the law has proven more porous than expected. When Huawei was first placed on the entity list, it led to corporate panic. Lawyers at American tech firms dived into obscure branches of export law that their firms had never before had to consider. A leaked internal memo from Arm, a chip-design company based in Britain but with a big presence in America, created the perception that its licensing of crucial chip designs to Huawei had completely ceased. Yet after the dust had settled, many of the tech firms concluded that the international nature of their supply chains would allow them to carry on serving Huawei even without a special licence of the sort awarded to Microsoft. 

Nvidia, a chipmaking company based in Santa Clara, California, offers an example. The firm designs graphics processing units (GPUs). These chips specialise in the sorts of mathematics required to draw whizzy graphics for modern video-games. A stroke of serendipity means they are also well-suited to artificial-intelligence work. But Nvidia does not physically make anything in America. Instead it sends its designs, which are not themselves subject to the export controls, to the Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, which undertakes the expensive, high-tech process of manufacturing the silicon. Under the law, that leaves Nvidia free to sell the resulting chips to Huawei. 

Many other American companies share this offshore-manufacturing structure. It exists because Western technology firms have largely outsourced manufacturing and assembly to countries such as Taiwan, which have built up large, specialised industries around the task. Only the highest-margin design work is still undertaken at home. For Huawei, this counts as a happy accident. For American security hawks, it is [`infuriating`](  "Something that is infuriating annoys you very much. 激怒人的"). 

The status quo may not last. The Department of Commerce is drawing up two lists of technologies, one “foundational” and one “emerging”, whose export will be subject to much more severe restrictions than those imposed by the entity list. Depending on how strictly the lists are drawn, the new rules could do serious damage. 

In the meantime, though, the main effect of the sanctions seems to have been to accelerate Huawei’s push towards technological independence from America. Analysis of its phones by UBS, a bank, shows they now contain fewer American-sourced components (some appear to contain none at all). The firm has said that similar efforts are being made across the company. Huawei is still not immune to determined American action. But it is less vulnerable than it was.

***

<h3 id="5.3">LVMH tests the limits of luxury</h3>

WHAT DO YOU buy the luxury group that has everything? More diamonds, apparently. On November 25th LVMH, already the biggest beast in global luxury, announced it was taking over Tiffany & Co, where Wall Street bond traders sink a few bucks to improve their chances of turning girlfriends into fiancées. The American marque will become the 76th maison of the Parisian group, joining Louis Vuitton, Dior and Veuve Clicquot champagne. How many more can fit under the corporate umbrella of Bernard Arnault, LVMH’s boss and biggest shareholder? 

The deal is as richly priced as a flawless gem. LVMH will pay $16.9bn including net debt, equivalent to nearly four years’ sales at Tiffany. Nonetheless, the takeover was greeted with the enthusiasm befitting a suitable engagement. Luxury, once little more than a cottage industry dominated by family firms in Europe, has become the preserve of a few giant conglomerates. In recent decades there has been a sense of inevitability when another well-known company has fallen into the clutches of LVMH or its rivals, Kering (home of Gucci and Balenciaga among others) and Richemont (which owns Cartier and Montblanc). 

The acquisition `cements`<sup>巩固</sup> the place of LVMH at the peak of the luxury world. Its rise has been nothing short of dazzling since Mr Arnault took it over three decades ago. Its shares have risen threefold in the past five years, including a 60% run since January. Worth around €206bn ($227bn), LVMH now vies with Royal Dutch Shell as the most valuable firm based in the EU. 

Mr Arnault, whose family owns nearly half of LVMH (and a solid majority of voting rights), is said to be Europe’s richest man. From the gritty town of Roubaix in northern France, he turned a family construction firm to property, then luxury. He snapped up Dior as part of a package of distressed textile assets in the 1980s, then seized control at LVMH. The “wolf in cashmere” has all the trappings of a $100bn fortune, from a public art collection housed in a Parisian museum designed by Frank Gehry to his `impeccably`<sup>无可挑剔地</sup> tailored Christian Dior suits and a couple of newspapers. 

“LVMH dominates a structurally favoured sector, buoyed by globalisation and income inequality,” says Luca Solca of Bernstein, a research firm. Its success is the result of being the right size—big—in the right business at the right time. 

Start with the industry. Sales of luxury goods, such as handbags, posh watches and Hermès scarves, have grown by about 6% a year since 1996 according to Bain, a consultancy. It estimates the industry will be worth €281bn this year. Chinese shoppers, who barely featured in 2000 but now account for a third of all sales, have added much of the fizz. 

Size has brought more rewards. In an industry with high fixed costs—spent on marketing, but also on eye-watering rents for shops on flashy thoroughfares—selling more translates into better margins. LVMH has achieved nearly double the industry’s growth rate in the past two decades, and last year sold over €46bn-worth of extravagance (see chart). That is more than three times the figure for Kering and Richemont, its nearest rivals. 

Mr Arnault emerged as the most obvious buyer for Tiffany in part because scale begets advantages not available to smaller bauble-peddlers. That might seem odd at first. Compared with lesser industries, mergers in the luxury world kick up few opportunities for cost-cutting or synergies. Nobody expects Tiffany watches to be sold in Louis Vuitton stores, for example. 

But analysts think brands can do better within a conglomerate. Take Tiffany. Its shareholders had pestered management to improve margins and raise sales fast, unduly hurrying its turnaround efforts. LVMH says it will give Tiffany time and money, for example to renovate stores and push upmarket. It did something similar with Bulgari, an Italian jeweller. Mr Arnault this week said profits there had risen five-fold since LVMH took it over in 2011. The group does not disclose how each brand is doing (its annual report contains more pictures of jewel-laden models than financial [`minutiae`](   "The minutiae of something such as someone's job or life are the very small details of it. 细枝末节; 琐事")), easing the pressure on creative types to meet quarterly targets. 

Scale has more mundane advantages, too. Conglomerates have more clout when negotiating, for example, with landlords of new malls in China. They can browbeat magazines for better advertising rates. Hefty costs associated with building e-commerce sites can be shared. 

Such advantages suggest more consolidation. But there are limits for LVMH and others. One is supply. The timeless brands that conglomerates crave by definition need a long history, and these are relatively few. Those that remain independent, such as Chanel or Rolex, preserve that status fiercely. Mr Arnault has got round this by subtly expanding the scope of luxury, for example by branching out into hotels. 

Another limit, which is particular to LVMH, is whether any group can handle so many different businesses. In other industries, conglomerates are regarded as unwieldy and have fallen out of fashion. Kering slimmed down by spinning off Puma, a sportswear brand, last year. So far the mood is for building empires, not dismantling them. Some wonder if Richemont and Kering might merge to boost their prospects. 

LVMH is not without challenges. The luxury sector’s future is uncertain. Growth in China will not last for ever, especially if trade tensions continue. Even Dom Pérignon drinkers feel the impact of recessions. Marketing has had to evolve to attract millennials who care about Instagram and sustainability. More shopping is happening online, where `mastodons`<sup>庞然大物</sup> like Amazon and Alibaba lurk. 

Perhaps half the firm’s profits come from a single brand, Louis Vuitton. Mr Arnault has made it clear that LVMH is a family firm and that one of his children (four of whom work in the business) will take over. At 70, he remains firmly in charge. But as time passes, the question of whether his heirs have inherited his talent for flogging objects of desire will come into focus. 

And can luxury continue to sell to ever more people yet retain its cachet? So far it has. But the industry Mr Arnault helped create is young, despite the timeless quality it seeks to exude. It has thrived by spending extravagantly to get people to buy beautiful foreign things they do not need. It is the [`archetypal`](    "Someone or something that is archetypal has all the most important characteristics of a particular kind of person or thing and is a perfect example of it. 典型的") business model of the times. But what if times change?

***

<h3 id="5.4">One company, two systems</h3>


ANYONE WHO is cursed with a rational mind should [`ponder`](    "If you ponder something, you think about it carefully. 仔细思考") Alibaba’s faith in eight, the luckiest single digit in China. On November 26th China’s e-commerce [`juggernaut`](    "If you describe an organization or group as a juggernaut, you are critical of them because they are large and extremely powerful, and you think they are not being controlled properly. 难以监控的强大机构(或集团)") sold HK$88bn ($11.2bn) of secondary shares on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange under the stock symbol 9988—88 is not only a homonym for baba, but also signifies double luck. As soon as the gong was banged to launch trading, the shares soared from HK$176 to the [`auspicious`](  "Something that is auspicious indicates that success is likely. 有望成功的") price of HK$188. Luck was on Alibaba’s side. Nearby Pedder Street, where 19th-century stockbrokers gathered to trade shares, has been a hotspot of anti-China protests since early summer. On occasion, the smell of tear-gas has wafted into the exchange. Yet after a landslide win for pro-democracy parties in local elections earlier in the week, the chaos has—at least temporarily—subsided. 

Luck aside, the listing provides the company with triple benefits. It wins brownie points with the Chinese government for demonstrating confidence in Hong Kong’s financial future amid the protests. It partially hedges its exposure to America, where it launched the biggest initial public offering of all time in 2014, but has recently suffered from trade-war related turbulence. And it increases the accessibility of its shares to Asian institutional investors, who may be less inclined to view China through the prism of trade and geopolitical tensions. Soon it may be eligible for Stock Connect schemes that link Hong Kong with markets in Shanghai and Shenzhen, allowing mainland investors to pile in as well. 

In the process, Alibaba has already `chalked up`<sup>取得</sup> one victory. It has shrunk the discount at which its shares have long traded against Hong Kong-listed Tencent, its sworn enemy among China’s internet titans. Its eyes are now on a bigger prize. Alibaba’s executives suggest that the firm should be valued like Amazon, its biggest global e-commerce competitor. Amazon is worth $890bn compared with $520bn for Alibaba. The American firm’s prospective price/earnings ratio, at around 67, is over twice that of its Chinese rival. To narrow the gap Alibaba has a tricky balancing act to pull off. It needs to keep the Chinese government on its side, but also appear less Chinese when winning over the outside world. 

Alibaba’s ability to achieve its ambitions should not be underestimated. But even the most bullish analysts say that overtaking Amazon is a long shot. The two firms have different business models. Alibaba provides a platform that links buyers and sellers on its biggest sites, Taobao and Tmall, and it mostly makes money from sellers spending money to push their wares higher up the search rankings. Unlike Amazon, it does not sell its own goods, meaning it has no need for inventory and warehousing. That helps it generate much fatter profit margins. But according to David Dai of Bernstein, a research firm, its cloud-computing business, though the biggest in China, makes a negligible contribution to its valuation. Amazon’s cloud business, Amazon Web Services, is a gold mine, accounting for about half of the American firm’s value. And while Amazon generates over $70bn of annual sales from outside its home market the figure for Alibaba is less than $10bn. 

Daniel Zhang, who in September took over running the firm from Jack Ma, its [`charismatic`](    "A charismatic person attracts, influences, and inspires people by their personal qualities. 有魅力的") founder, is trying to transform Alibaba by making better use of its vast trove of data to create more value. Roughly one of every two Chinese buy via its e-commerce platforms. Bolstering it all is Alipay, its online-payments platform with about 900m users in China. Alibaba owns a 33% stake in Ant Financial, Alipay’s parent company, potentially further boosting its appeal to investors. 

But for all its clout, it remains at the mercy of the Chinese government. After its listing in New York in 2014, a boom in its share price turned to bust when government regulators publicly tore it off a strip for peddling fakes. As Alipay and Tencent’s Tenpay have muscled into territory controlled by state-owned banks, the government of President Xi Jinping has angrily pushed back. Now regulatory heat is rising over allegations of unfair competition, particularly with regard to “pick-a-side” deals, in which platforms forbid merchants from trading with their rivals. Galanz, a home-appliance-maker, and JD.com, a big e-commerce rival, have recently sued Alibaba’s Tmall for allegedly abusing its market power. In April Colin Huang, founder of Pinduoduo, a $43bn upstart that is nipping at Alibaba’s heels, warned of “forced exclusivity” in e-commerce. Alibaba dismisses the issue as “baseless sensationalisation”. It adds that “committing to a single partner is normal commercial behaviour”. Shortly before Alibaba’s Singles’ Day sales jamboree on November 11th, regulators travelled to its home town of Hangzhou to warn e-commerce firms that such deals were illegal. If they want, they can make life deeply uncomfortable. 

Alibaba, for now, appears relaxed about the pressure. It argues that Big Tech in China is hardly a cosy oligopoly. The constant battle between Alibaba, Tencent and others is almost visceral. Yet the importance of remaining in the government’s good books may undercut its efforts to build a global business. It has made inroads in South-East Asia. But analysts doubt its ability to compete strongly with Amazon in Europe and America, especially in cloud services because of concerns about the Chinese government’s access to its data (though much of that belonging to its clients outside China is stored offshore). Even in Hong Kong, it may find itself in an awkward position if anti-China sentiment resurges. 

Alibaba has made its own luck. Since its founding 20 years ago, it has battled the Chinese state to get where it is, [`trounced`](  "If you trounce someone in a competition or contest, you defeat them easily or by a large score. 轻松战胜; 大胜") foreign competition in China and helped revolutionise e-commerce. This year it has responded to onslaughts from the likes of Pinduoduo by upping its e-commerce offerings in China’s hinterland. From a tech point of view, it stands shoulder to shoulder with Amazon. But its valuation shows how steep the China discount remains. If it is truly lucky, the Hong Kong listing may help change that a bit.

***
<h3 id="5.5">Supplying clean power is easier than storing it</h3>

IT SOUNDS SIMPLE: lift heavy blocks with a crane, then capture the power generated from dropping them. This is not an experiment designed by a ten-year-old, but the premise of Energy Vault, which has raised $110m from SoftBank, a big Japanese tech investor. The idea has competition. A cluster of billionaires including Bill Gates, Jack Ma, Ray Dalio and SoftBank’s Masayoshi Son are backing other schemes to capture power. A firm incubated at Alphabet, Google’s parent company, wants to store electricity in [`molten`](    "Molten rock, metal, or glass has been heated to a very high temperature and has become a hot, thick liquid. 熔化的") salt. Such plans hint at one of the power business’s hardest tasks. Generating clean power is now relatively straightforward. Storing it is far trickier. 

Solar and wind last year produced 7% of the world’s electricity. By 2040, that share could grow by over five times, according to the International Energy Agency, an intergovernmental forecaster. The trouble is, a lull in the wind leaves a turbine listless. Clouds have a habit of blocking the sun. That means that solar and wind cannot, on their own, replace coal and gas plants, which produce continual power reliably. 

One answer is to store power in batteries, which promise to gather clean electricity when the sun and wind produce more than is required and dispatch it later, as it is needed. In 2018 some 3.5 gigawatts of storage was installed, about twice the amount in 2017, according to BloombergNEF, an energy data firm. Total investment in storage this year may reach $5.3bn, it estimates. As this grows it could drive an extraordinary expansion (see chart). However at present only about 1% of renewable energy is complemented by storage, reckons Morgan Stanley, a bank. There are still plenty of hurdles to clear. 

The most common method of storage so far has been to pump water into an elevated reservoir at times of plenty and release it when electricity is needed. This type of hydropower is not the answer to providing lots more storage. Building a new reservoir requires unusual topography and it can [`wreak`](   "Something or someone that wreaks havoc or destruction causes a great amount of disorder or damage. 造成 (混乱或严重破坏)") environmental havoc. 

Batteries offer an alternative and availability should improve as electric cars become ever more popular. “The whole production supply chain for lithium-ion batteries for electric vehicles is gearing up,” says Andrés Gluski of AES, an electricity company, “so we’re going to piggyback on that.” As greater demand led to greater manufacturing scale, the cost of batteries dropped by 85% from 2010 to 2018, according to BloombergNEF. That makes batteries cheap enough not only to propel mass-market electric cars but for use in the power system, too. 

And as electric cars become more widespread their batteries could serve as a source of mobile storage, feeding power back into the grid, if required, when the vehicles are parked and plugged in. With the right infrastructure in place, fleets of electric cars could substitute for new dedicated storage capacity. 

Batteries do a variety of things. A firm called Sunrun sells residential solar panels paired with batteries, a particularly appealing proposition for Californian homeowners desperate for an alternative to fire-induced blackouts. Within the broader grid, batteries can act as a shock absorber to deal with variations in supply from one minute to the next. Other uses include shifting electricity supply from the day, when solar panels often produce a [`surfeit`](  "A surfeit of something is an amount which is too large. 过量") of power, to the evening, when demand rises. 

The growth of storage is becoming a headache for old-fashioned power generators that rely on gas or coal. NextEra Energy Resources, which builds clean-power installations, is increasingly pairing large solar farms with batteries. AES, which has battery-storage facilities in 21 countries and territories, runs a scheme in Hawaii that combines solar with storage to meet peaks in demand. The Rocky Mountain Institute, a clean-energy research group, warns that solar and battery projects, combined with measures such as smarter appliances to control demand, may turn gas-powered plants into stranded assets. 

Nevertheless, the battery industry faces several barriers to broader deployment. To start with, if a battery overheats it can catch fire, producing gases that might explode. In the past year installations in South Korea have caught fire. A fire and explosion in April damaged a storage site in Arizona run by Fluence, a joint venture between AES and Siemens, a German engineering giant. The causes are still under investigation. As the industry matures, safety measures are likely to become more rigorous. 

In the meantime, the industry will have to cope with a patchwork of other rules and regulations. South Korea has offered incentives for storage, in part to create a market for its domestic battery-makers, which are among the world’s leaders. Some states in America, such as New York and New Jersey, have mandated storage to help reduce emissions. In others, America’s federal electricity regulator is trying to open markets to storage, but the details of how that will work in practice are unclear. In Britain, batteries are deemed “generation assets”, which exposes storage developers to extra fees and costs, says Michael Folsom of Watson Farley & Williams, a law firm. 

Even if electricity regulations were smoothed, lithium-ion batteries would eventually reach their limits. Breakthrough Energy Ventures (BEV) is a fund backed by Messrs Gates, Ma, Dalio and other billionaires to invest in transformational technologies. The cost of lithium-ion batteries is falling quickly, but to store power for days let alone weeks “lithium-ion is never going to get cheap enough”, says Eric Toone, BEV’s head of science. 

Alternatives include flow batteries, that use electrolytes in tanks of chemical solution, as well as mechanical means such as Energy Vault’s falling blocks. Hydrogen can also be made using clean power and turned back into electricity in gas-fired power plants or fuel cells. In the future liquefied gases might provide a solution (see article). Unlike solar panels, which have become standardised, different batteries are likely to serve different purposes on a grid. “All batteries are like humans, equally flawed in some specific way,” says Mateo Jaramillo, who led storage development at Tesla, an electric carmaker. 

Mr Jaramillo now leads Form Energy, a firm that is developing an electrochemical alternative to lithium-ion batteries. Investors include BEV and Eni, an large Italian oil and gas firm. Mr Jaramillo declines to predict when his work will be commercialised. But the goal is clear. “If you can develop a long-term storage solution,” he says, “that’s how you retire coal and that’s how you retire natural gas.”

***
<h3 id="5.6">The reinvention of Novartis</h3>


THE BOSS of Novartis is on a buying [`spree`](  "If you spend a period of time doing something in an excessive way, you can say that you are going on a particular kind of spree. 放纵"). Vas Narasimhan has been shopping for new medicines that will reinvent his drug company. His aim is to turn a [`stodgy`](  "If someone or something is stodgy, they are dull, unimaginative, and commonplace. 枯燥乏味的; 单调平庸的") European conglomerate into a cutting-edge pharmaceuticals firm by decluttering it of unwanted assets and placing big bets on advanced medicines. These are more precise in the way they work and are likely to play an increasing role in health care in the future. By shuffling the deck, Mr Narasimhan says he is focusing on “transformative innovation”. All bosses of pharma firms like to boast about that kind of thing. Nonetheless, there is substance to the changes afoot at Novartis. 

The latest acquisition, announced on November 24th, of the Medicines Company for $9.7bn, brings with it a promising cardiac drug that targets bad cholesterol, and which can be given in only two annual shots. In less than two years at the helm, Mr Narasimhan has also snapped up an eye drug from Takeda for up to $5.3bn, Endocyte, a small biopharma firm, for $2.1bn, and AveXis, a gene-therapy firm, for $8.7bn. He has boasted about having a pipeline of 25 blockbuster drugs. If they all come good it would be remarkable. 

Out has gone the firm’s stake in a joint consumer health-care venture with GSK, a British pharma firm, for $13bn. Alcon, its eye-care division, has been spun off into a separately traded company. 

Pharma firms have been slow to adopt the digital transformations that have brought innovation (and disruption) to finance, shopping, banking and airlines. The new Novartis is more intent than rival drug firms on using big data and digital technologies to improve productivity and offer new services. If it can harness big data, the firm could become more adept at drug development. This would, for example, allow Novartis to hone the way it runs clinical trials. It could also allow the firm to identify subgroups of patients within sufferers from diseases such as multiple sclerosis, who will respond better to particular drugs, significantly lowering the cost of treatment. The firm is also opening digital health labs, including one in San Francisco, to tap into start-ups in the health-technology field. 

Even as it tries to reshape itself for the next era of medicine, Novartis still faces some criticisms familiar in the drug industry. One is high prices. Its gene-therapy drug, Zolgensma, is expected to cure spinal muscular atrophy, but costs $2.1m per treatment in America. Novartis has also been sharply admonished by regulators and lawmakers for being slow to reveal that falsified data were used to gain approval for the drug. The firm says it was standard procedure to investigate before informing authorities. The dodgy data seem to have no bearing on the safety or efficacy of the drug. 

When it comes to the new heart drug Mr Narasimhan has bought, he will have less pricing power than with Zolgensma. Although the medicine may be better than its rivals, the market is crowded with similar drugs that are not selling well. But while its transformation is under way at least Novartis, like its rivals, can rely on a booming Chinese market, where the government is now paying reasonable prices for foreign drugs. Novartis talks of doubling sales in Asia over the next five years. Investors who are worried about the high price paid for the Medicines Company can take heart. 

***
<h3 id="5.7">Too much management research is clear as mud</h3>

BEWARE THE [`guru`](    "A guru is a person who some people regard as an expert or leader. 专家") with a theory that explains how companies behave or the perfect recipe for how firms succeed. Beware, too, the lengthy academic studies to similar effect. That is the stark warning of “Management Studies in Crisis: Fraud, Deception and Meaningless Research”, a new book by Dennis Tourish, a scholar of organisations at the University of Sussex. 

The idea of “scientific management” dates back to Frederick Winslow Taylor, who wrote a treatise on it in 1911. One example invoked the Bethlehem Iron Company, where he supposedly persuaded an employee named Schmidt (about whom Taylor was very [`condescending`](  "If you say that someone is condescending, you are showing your disapproval of the fact that they talk or behave in a way which shows that they think they are superior to other people. 显得高人一等的")) to work harder by paying a piece rate. 

Taylor claimed his schemes allowed employees to quadruple output. But he based his numbers on a handful of workers increasing their activity over a short period. Their improved work rate would, Mr Tourish calculates, have equated to 71 tonnes over a ten-hour day. But, he notes, “Taylor rounded this up to 75 tonnes, figured that such sustained work was impossible, and reduced the target by 40%.” Hardly a [`paragon`]( "If you refer to someone as a paragon, you mean that they are perfect or have a lot of a good qualities. 完人; 杰出典范") of scientific rigour, then. 

Elton Mayo conducted another much-cited early 20th-century study. He found that changes in lighting at the Hawthorne works in Illinois improved productivity. Remarkably, the work indicated that making the lights more or less bright made no difference; workers simply responded to the special attention paid them. This was welcomed by many managers as it implied it was not always necessary to reward workers with more money to increase output. 

But as Mr Tourish points out, only five women were studied, two of whom were replaced during the experiment when their responses proved unsatisfactory. And the lights were changed on a Sunday, when no one was around. The increased productivity thus occurred on a Monday. Later studies have shown that workers are generally more productive at the start of a week than on Fridays or Saturdays. 

The modern era is also full of dodgy theories based on limited evidence. A few years ago journalists noticed a bizarre tendency for British politicians to stand with their legs far apart like living croquet hoops. The fashion for the pose seems to have been driven by a paper from 2010 which suggested that any leader who adopted this strange stance would feel more confident and appear more powerful. Then a second team of researchers conducted a follow-up study with a sample size five times that of the original. It found no such effect. 

At least these studies had two merits: they were easy to understand and it was possible to check their results. Too much modern management research, the author argues, is a mess of inconsequential jargon, tailor-made to appear in leading journals. Academics are judged on their ability to get papers published in these periodicals and business schools are ranked on their ability to employ the most prolific of these academics. 

This rush to publish has led to management research being affected by the same problems as other disciplines. A bias exists to publish studies that show headline-grabbing results. Cherry picking—selective use of statistics in search of a striking conclusion—is commonplace. Results that show an effect does not exist, as scientifically useful as positive findings, are stashed away in a drawer. One survey of the literature found that 25-50% of management articles had inconsistencies or errors; another concluded that 70% of papers disclosed too little data to permit independent verification of their findings. 

And then there is the language the research is couched in. As Mr Tourish puts it, “trivial insights are converted into theoretical statements that read like English translated into Esperanto and then back again.” He cites one 57-word sentence that begins “By introducing Heidegger’s distinction between the building and dwelling modes of engagement to the strategy-as-practice literature…” (In the spirit of seasonal cheer, Bartleby will spare you the rest.) 

It is hard to believe that anyone, bar other academics, reads this stuff. So what is the point? How many chief executives base their strategy on theories gleaned from a management journal? Everyone would benefit if management research were clearly written, based on real-world examples and realistic about its broader applicability. Less Chomsky, please, and more cost-benefit analysis. 

***
<h2 id="6">Obituary</h2>

***
<h3 id="6.1">Obituary: Raymond Poulidor died on November 13th</h3>


EIGHT TIMES Raymond Poulidor stood on the podium at the end of the Tour de France, [`soaked`](  "If someone or something gets soaked or soaked through, water or some other liquid makes them extremely wet. 湿透的") in sweat, exhausted and smiling his big gap-toothed smile. He was just never on the top step. In 14 Tours someone else always pipped him or, to be honest, passed him by quite a lot. He came second three times, third five times (including in his last tour, not bad for a 40-year-old), but never put on the treasured yellow jersey, the greatest prize in cycling. The closest he came to that was when winners offered to let him wear it at dinner parties, and he would shrug his big frame into it with no bitterness at all. Because, with or without it, “L’Eternel Second” was by far the most popular racing cyclist ever known in France. 

His catalogue of [`mishaps`](   "A mishap is an unfortunate but not very serious event that happens to someone. 小灾难") in the Tour was long. In 1962, when he came third, he had a broken finger. In 1964, when he came second, he lost time at Monaco and had a puncture in the Pyrenees. In 1965, Italian riders ganged up on him. In 1967 he fell badly in the Vosges, and in 1968 he was hit by a motorbike. The race in 1973 began with his nearest chance, when he was behind by a mere 0.8 seconds in the Prologue, but he later fell down a ravine. In 1975, his worst Tour, when he came 19th, he had bronchitis. Something always came between him and the glory of the maillot jaune. And all Frenchmen and women who had ever repeatedly tried, and failed, to achieve some goal took him to their hearts accordingly. He was “Pouli” and “Poupou” (a stupid name, but he put up with it), carried aloft on a sea of poupoularité. 

They called him unlucky. He did not agree. He thought he had had a lot of luck, in fact. Over a 18-year career he had chalked up 189 victories in other races, including the Vuelta a España, his only Grand Tour, La Flèche Wallonne, the French national championship and the Paris-Nice (twice) against the great Belgian Eddy Merckx. He also won the Milan-San Remo, though true to form it almost slipped away when he got a puncture 125km from the finish and, on the final corner, was sent the wrong way by a policeman. Yet he held off the chasing field and won, by three seconds. 

He was also lucky, to his mind, to be cycling at all. The alternative was to be labouring, like his parents, on the rocky hills of Creuse, trying to make the bad soil yield enough to get bread for the table and rent in the landlord’s wallet. He had left school at 14, like his three brothers, prepared to toil, but also aware that his best times were when he was racing his bike between the villages on fair-days or speeding round the hills with his brothers, for all the world like one of the grim sleek riders in Miroir-Sprint magazine. He could never be called sleek, more cuddly, and after his service militaire in Algeria pretty fat, but he shook off the weight and became a professional cyclist in 1960, when he was 24. 

What he did not shake off, but made much of, were his peasant roots. Between races he went back to help on the farm, and his style of cycling—dogged and determined on hills, a bit too leisurely on the time trials—owed something to farm work, too. With his lined, wind-burned face and slow Limousin drawl, he reminded his followers of the old ways, la France profonde and all kinds of comforting verities that had been pushed aside by modern life. He kept a peasant’s innocence, and in 1966 got into deep merde with his colleagues for agreeing to a newfangled drugs test which they were all refusing. But he also kept a shrewd business head on his shoulders. He knew the value of a franc, ever since he and his brothers had broken their bedroom window and been told, by their father, that there would be no money to mend it until the spring. 

It was therefore oddly satisfying that his great rival, Jacques Anquetil, was everything he was not: a well-off, pale-faced, blond-quiffed, almost ghostly Norman, withdrawn and unflamboyant. Anquetil won the Tour five times, yet to his fury the French still loved Poupou more. The depth of their duelling was witnessed by half a million spectators when, in 1964, they battled up the Puy de Dôme in Auvergne side by side, Anquetil on the mountain side and Poupou on the precipice edge, so close that their elbows knocked and Poupou could feel the hot breath of “Maître Jacques” on his arms. He gained 42 seconds over him; it was not enough to win the Tour. But he did not mind too much, as he never did. 

One reason to be relaxed was that he was making a lot of money—more even than Anquetil, some said. From the start he had been astonished at what cyclists earned. His first prize, 80,000 old francs for coming second, would have taken him six years to get by farming (or substantially less time at the poker table, where he was a skilled bluffer). The more Tours he lost, the more the crowds liked him and the more he earned. At the height of his celebrity, in the mid-1970s, almost half of respondents to one poll made him their first choice as a dinner guest. In 1974 alone more than 4,000 articles were written about him, besides university theses and sociological studies. He lent his name to sports bikes, and given half a chance would stand in supermarkets shouting “Just the right bike for you, sir!” Later, as a national treasure, he had a rose named after him, and appeared along the route of the Tour in yellow outfits and with trinkets in his hands, cheered by all who saw him. 

This [`adulation`]( "Adulation is uncritical admiration and praise of someone or something. (对人或物的盲目)崇拜") came not simply because he failed, but because of the manner of his failing. He did not get up each morning with the thought of winning. He did not think of winning at all. His manager complained that he was always in a daydream, and it was true. Everything that was happening to him was marvellous enough. His memoir was called “La gloire sans maillot jaune”, glory without the jersey, which in the end he didn’t need. Eight times he had got within touching distance, and lost them all. But he could still say, as he often did, “Look how close I came!”

***
<h2 id="7">Books and arts</h2>

***
<h3 id="７.1">A stunning, sad heist in Dresden</h3>

IN THE 18TH CENTURY Augustus the Strong competed with Louis XIV, France’s “Sun King”, to assemble Europe’s most extravagant jewellery collection. The elector of Saxony, who ruled over Poland and Lithuania, probably triumphed in the end: he gathered multiple sets of [`exquisite`](    "Something that is exquisite is extremely beautiful or pleasant, especially in a delicate way. 精美的") artefacts, made of diamonds, rubies, sapphires and emeralds, a haul that was supplemented by his successors. The collection represents “a kind of world heritage”, reckons Dirk Syndram, director of the Green Vault treasury in Dresden, a baroque city on the Elbe, which houses all the gems. 

Or, it did until recently. In a swift pre-dawn raid on November 25th at least two (presumably diminutive) thieves entered the Green Vault’s jewel room through a small hole they had made in the iron grille of a ground-floor window. They had apparently disabled the museum’s alarm system by setting fire to a nearby electrical-distribution hub. Inside, they smashed a glass showcase with an axe and grabbed roughly 100 pieces from three of the jewellery sets, including several diamond brooches, a string of pearls, a duelling sword with a diamond-encrusted hilt (pictured) and the Star of the Polish White Eagle Order. 

Security guards alerted the police, but by the time they arrived, the thieves had fled; the presumed getaway car was found burned out in a nearby underground garage. One of the collection’s greatest treasures, the 41-carat Dresden Green Diamond, is safely on loan to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, for an exhibition about the splendour of European courts. But the missing pieces could be worth many millions of euros. “We are [`devastated`](  "If you are devastated by something, you are very shocked and upset by it. 十分震惊的") to hear of this theft,” said Max Hollein, the Met’s director. 

Rocketing art prices are attracting ever-more daring criminals. On November 13th intruders were walking out of the Dulwich Picture Gallery in London with two Rembrandts when they were stopped by police; they managed to escape, albeit without the paintings. Four men are currently on trial for the theft in 2017 of a giant gold coin valued at €3.75m ($4.1m) from the Bode Museum in Berlin. 

Even so, the Dresden heist—now being investigated by a 20-strong team of specialists code-named “Epaulette”—stands out. The late Martin Roth, a former director of the Dresden State Art Collections (of which the jewellery hoard is a part), claimed in 2010 that “the Green Vault is secured like Fort Knox”. Roth thought “the human factor” and “insider knowledge” posed the greatest risk, and the Green Vault’s staff will doubtless be questioned closely. On the other hand, points out Julian Radcliffe of the Art Loss Register, an art-database in London, crooks can often pick up ample intelligence as paying visitors. 

The artefacts are as storied as they are valuable. They survived the devastating Allied bombing of Dresden during the second world war, only to be seized by the Soviet Union. They were miraculously returned in their entirety to East Germany, contributing to the city’s resurgence, though the full trove has been on display only since 2006, after the painstaking restoration of Dresden Castle. The fear now is that, since the pieces are too recognisable to be sold intact, the robbers will break out the diamonds and sapphires to flog them separately. The coin stolen from the Bode Museum is widely assumed to have been melted and sold off. The loss of the Dresden jewellery would be much sadder.


***

<h3 id="７.2">How to talk to aliens</h3>

IMAGINE DINING in a European capital where you do not know the local language. The waiter speaks little English, but by hook or by crook you manage to order something on the menu that you recognise, eat and pay for. Now picture instead that, after a hike goes wrong, you emerge, starving, in an Amazonian village. The people there have no idea what to make of you. You mime chewing sounds, which they mistake for your primitive tongue. When you raise your hands to signify surrender, they think you are launching an attack. 

Communicating without a shared context is hard. For example, radioactive sites must be left undisturbed for tens of thousands of years; yet, given that the English of just 1,000 years ago is now unintelligible to most of its modern speakers, agencies have struggled to create warnings to accompany nuclear waste. Committees responsible for doing so have come up with everything from towering concrete spikes, to Edvard Munch’s “The Scream”, to plants genetically modified to turn an alarming blue. None is guaranteed to be `future-proof`<sup>不过时的</sup>. 

Some of the same people who worked on these waste-site messages have also been part of an even bigger challenge: communicating with extraterrestrial life. This is the subject of “Extraterrestrial Languages”, a new book by Daniel Oberhaus, a journalist at Wired. 

Nothing is known about how extraterrestrials might take in information. A pair of plaques sent in the early 1970s with Pioneer 10 and 11, two spacecraft, show nude human beings and a rough map to find Earth—rudimentary stuff, but even that assumes aliens can see. Since such craft have no more than an infinitesimal chance of being found, radio broadcasts from Earth, travelling at the speed of light, are more likely to make contact. But just as a terrestrial radio must be tuned to the right frequency, so must the interstellar kind. How would aliens happen upon the correct one? The Pioneer plaque gives a hint in the form of a basic diagram of a hydrogen atom, the magnetic polarity of which flips at regular intervals, with a frequency of 1,420MHz. Since hydrogen is the most abundant element in the universe, the hope is that this sketch might act as a sort of telephone number. 

Assuming that human messages actually reach their target, what would earthlings and aliens talk about? The obvious subject to focus on is mathematics; its basic concepts are often assumed to be universal. Any intelligent species might have an interest in natural numbers (1, 2, 3 and so on) as well as things such as pi. But moving beyond that to wider conversation would be far harder. Scientists have worked on “self-interpreting” languages—written in a way that aims to teach the reader the language as they go—which might make the next steps possible. 

Is there any reason to think alien communication systems would share the two key design features of human language, words and grammar? A word like “book” is a symbol for all objects that exhibit bookish qualities; would aliens also employ symbols, rather than having separate names for every object in their world? Mr Oberhaus adduces arguments that they might. Whatever type of society they inhabit, alien life-forms would have limited time and energy, as people do. It is efficient to use symbols. Similarly, human grammar allows a vast number of sentences to be made from a finite number of rules. Any resource-constrained Moon-man might develop such grammar, too. 

Even if all such hurdles were overcome, however, distance would still be a problem. Human children learn their first language by listening, trying it out and getting instant feedback. This give-and-take allows them to use fluent sentences by the age of four. In 2015 the first known exoplanet at a “goldilocks” distance from its star (not too near and not too far), and with water, was discovered 110 light-years away. A message sent today would arrive in 2129; its reply, in 2239. The kinds of exchanges depicted in sci-fi films would take lifetimes. 

The awesome challenges of communicating across the galaxy mean that some think it not worth the effort—to say nothing of a political question raised by Mr Oberhaus: “Who speaks for Earth?” But pondering these obstacles raises another thought, not about aliens but what humanity has in common. Linguists argue about whether languages share universal features or are unique products of local cultures; whatever the answer, the world’s 7,000-odd tongues are vastly closer to one another than anything to be found out there.

***

<h3 id="７.3">In “The Innocents”, a brother and sister struggle to survive</h3>


The Innocents. By Michael Crummey. Doubleday; 289 pages; $26.95. 

EVERED AND Ada Best are “still youngsters” when their parents die, leaving them alone on the bleak Newfoundland coast. “They were left together in the cove then with its dirt-floored stud tilt,” writes Michael Crummey, “with its garden of root vegetables and its scatter of outbuildings, with its looming circle of hills and rattling `brook`<sup>小河</sup> and its view of the ocean’s grey expanse beyond the harbour skerries.” In “The Innocents”, Mr Crummey, a Newfoundland native, captures in hypnotic prose the force of the driving sea and the ways of a beautiful, barren place where Evered and Ada are cast adrift. 

Their lives are bound by seasonal rhythms—of the sea rather than the land, for brother and sister must subsist as their parents did, catching cod, salting and drying it, exchanging what they preserve for the supplies they need when a ship aptly called the Hope appears over the horizon. In brutal poetry, Mr Crummey invokes the work they do to survive, “the two children wielding knives honed to a razor’s edge, up to their slender wrists in blood and offal”. The book’s tension is built on language which has the clean power of folk-tale. When is the story set? Sometime in the early 19th century, the reader can infer from references to war and convict ships, but time has little meaning here. 

As Evered and Ada huddle for warmth in winter, their closeness evolves into something else. With compelling eroticism, Mr Crummey depicts them awakening to their physical selves; Ada first learned of pleasure when, at nine, she pressed herself against the keel of the boat that Evered and their father were preparing for the season, by raking oakum from its seams. As the craft vibrated, she sensed “the quiver until she felt an answering quiver pass through her like an echo coming off a cliff face”. With their parents gone, half-asleep in their bed in the tilt, they rock against each other for comfort and gratification. They do not speak of what they do there. 

The world intrudes intermittently: the reader is in the same position as this lonely pair, waiting to see what it will bring. They find a shipwreck, but what looks at first like bounty turns out to be something else entirely. The HMS Medusa anchors offshore, bringing the raucous company of sailors. But at the centre of it all are Evered and Ada, sealed in their companionship, making their new life alone. What they discover—about the land and about themselves—is both gorgeous and terrifying.

***
<h3 id="７.4">The world-changing life of Walter Raleigh</h3>

Walter Ralegh: Architect of Empire. By Alan Gallay. Basic Books; 576 pages; $40 and £30.95. 

PERHAPS IT WAS the fact that he was already dead that enabled Walter Raleigh to face his execution with such [`equanimity`](    "Equanimity is a calm state of mind and attitude to life, so that you never lose your temper or become upset. 平静; 坦然"). On October 19th 1618 he was led from the Tower of London; along the way he smiled and joked. Seeing a bald man in the assembled crowd, he offered him his hat (“Thou hast more need of it now than I”). Then he laid his head upon the block. Legally speaking, Raleigh had already been “dead” for 15 years, after being found guilty of plotting against James I and deprived of his rights. Now, an axe added sharpened steel to sharp legal practice. 

Life, wrote Raleigh, is a “Tragedie”, and it proved so for him. He not only had the misfortune to die twice in life; he also, Alan Gallay argues in “Walter Ralegh”, has suffered a third death posthumously, that of his reputation. (Mr Gallay employs the variant of Raleigh’s name that omits the “i”, which his subject preferred in his later years.) Much of the good in Raleigh—his humanity, his curiosity, his brilliant poetry—has been buried with him. Today, he tends to be remembered as a failed coloniser or a popinjay courtier, covering a puddle with his cloak for Elizabeth I. 

His true achievements, Mr Gallay argues, were deeper than that (apocryphal) puddle tale. In his lifetime Raleigh’s influence spanned the oceans, reshaped territories and pervaded the very air of England. He named the American state of Virginia (after the Virgin Queen) and inspired Edmund Spenser’s monumental poem, “The Faerie Queene”. He probably brought Ireland the potato; he scented the air of the English court with tobacco. The minds, lands—and lungs—of the English would never be the same again. 

Mr Gallay’s subtitle calls Raleigh “Architect of Empire”. That was a vital role in the 16th century, as the foundations of England’s empire were shaky. Elizabeth partly wanted an empire to further her own desires and partly—as Raleigh’s half-brother explained in his “Discourse on how hir Majestie may annoy the K: of Spayne”—to thwart Spain’s. So far, things had not gone well. The previous English attempt to colonise America had involved exporting Morris dancers (“to delight the Savage people”) and Catholics (to delight the Protestants at home). It failed wretchedly. The savage people were undelighted; the K: of Spayne was insufficiently annoyed. 

Then, in 1584, Elizabeth granted her favourite an exclusive patent to colonise North America. Raleigh duly set about professionalising colonisation and philosophising about it. Where the previous lot sent dancers, he dispatched a brilliant scholar and a painter; the settlement foundered, but their work shaped European views of Native Americans for centuries. 

His later explorations were intellectual as much as physical. They had to be, since the man who helped open up the globe was incarcerated in the Tower of London three times, once by Elizabeth (for secretly marrying her lady-in-waiting) and twice by James I. While inside, Raleigh wrote a history of the world and experimented with making medicines that many, including royalty, swore by. Prince Henry, a son of James I, described imprisoning such a man as like keeping “a bird in a cage”. There are moments when Mr Gallay’s prose, which includes sentences about “gendered interpretations of the New World”, can feel as though it is doing the same. Still, his affection for his subject shines through. 

By 1618, after another bungled trip to that New World, James had enough of his caged bird. Since the “civilly dead” cannot commit new crimes, the old treason charge was reactivated and Raleigh was, once again, condemned. His curiosity was undimmed. On the morning of his death, he demanded to see the axe. The executioner at first refused. Raleigh [`chided`]( "If you chide someone, you speak to them angrily because they have done something bad or foolish. 斥责") him: “Dost thou think I am afraid of it?” When the axeman relented, Raleigh, who had made so many cures for others, fingered the blade. He smiled. “This is a sharp Medicine,” he said. “But it is a Physitian for all Diseases.” Two blows later, he was gone.

***

<h3 id="７.5">What would millennial socialists do with power?</h3>


THE FALL of the Berlin Wall in 1989 supposedly consigned socialism to history. Now, after a decade of slow growth in living standards, and amid widespread belief that inequality is soaring, the radical left is back. “Millennial socialists”, as The Economist described them earlier this year, are fizzing with ideas. They soon hope to put them into practice—whether under President Bernie Sanders or Prime Minister Jeremy Corbyn, whose Labour Party aims to triumph in Britain’s general election on December 12th. A wave of new books shows what millennial socialists really want, and how they plan to get it. 

Socialists from Karl Marx onwards have deployed both ethical and empirical arguments to buttress their system. In “The Socialist Manifesto” Bhaskar Sunkara of Jacobin, a radical magazine, proceeds from first principles, maintaining that “to be a socialist is to assert the moral worth of every person, no matter who they are, where they’re from, or what they did”. By contrast, in “The 99 Percent Economy” Paul Adler of the University of Southern California sprays statistics to prove that modern capitalism is broken and socialism is the fix. 

Many readers will find both approaches unconvincing. A dyed-in-the-wool libertarian might use Mr Sunkara’s nostrum as a justification for an individualist worldview instead. Mr Adler’s methodology feels sketchy. Can all the problems he identifies, from stress to racism to underpaid teachers, truly be attributed to the capitalist mode of production? Fortunately, however, both books are better at explaining what 21st-century socialism might look like. 

Fortunately, because millennial socialists’ objectives are often misunderstood. One common mistake is to assume that they want to build a society in the image of social democracies such as the Nordic states, where progressive taxation of lightly regulated markets funds high-quality public services. But Messrs Sunkara and Adler insist they are no social democrats. Rather, they are democratic socialists. 

That may sound like a meaningless [`factional`](    "Factional arguments or disputes involve two or more small groups from within a larger group. 派系的") distinction. In fact it points to an entirely different system of economic management. Thomas Piketty explores the contrast in his polemical new book, “Capital and Ideology” (currently only available in French). Though everyone on the left sees social democracy as an improvement on red-blooded capitalism, it nonetheless struggles to break free from what Mr Piketty calls “proprietarianism”, defined as “the political ideology founded on the absolute respect for private property”. 

Since, under social democracy, true power continues to reside with the capitalists, its commitment to egalitarianism is necessarily fragile. A social-democratic government might tax the rich a bit more and redistribute the proceeds to the poor, which is all well and good. But such reforms are easy to undo. Look at the ease with which the Conservative government elected in Britain in 2010 reversed New Labour’s `munificence`<sup>慷慨给与</sup> in the previous decade. 

And the tools which social democrats typically use to advance their goals are ill-suited to the modern economy, as Branko Milanovic, a left-leaning scholar formerly at the World Bank, convincingly argues in “Capitalism, Alone”. Heavy industry, the traditional base for trade unions, has shrunk, making it hard to resuscitate organised labour. Meanwhile, “further mass expansion of education is impossible when a country has reached 14 or 15 years of education on average”. 

According to the millennial socialists, more radical changes are required. Collectively, their manifesto boils down to three big ideas. First, they want vastly more government spending to provide, among other things, free universal health care, a much more generous social safety-net and a “Green New Deal” to slash carbon-dioxide emissions. Second, many argue for looser monetary policy, to reduce the cost of funding these plans. 

The third plank of their thinking is the most radical. The underlying idea is that capitalism does not just produce poverty and inequality (though it does), but that, by forcing people to compete with each other, it also robs them of dignity and freedom. “The power imbalances are obvious when you enter into your employment contract,” says Mr Sunkara. For Mr Adler, capitalism “has sucked the life out of democracy”. 

Millennial socialists, therefore, support the “democratisation” of the economy (or socialisme participatif, as Mr Piketty puts it), whereby ordinary people play a greater role in the production process, the market is removed from as many aspects of everyday life as possible, and the influence of the rich is drastically [`curtailed`]( "If you curtail something, you reduce or limit it. 缩减"). Such reforms, they argue, will create happier and more empowered citizens. 

What does “democratisation” mean in concrete terms? Some millennial socialists say everyone should be guaranteed a job; others want a universal basic income, a drastic reduction in the working week, or both. It also means promoting non-traditional forms of business organisation, including co-operatives, which give workers a decisive role in the day-to-day management of their company. 

Mr Adler thinks through how such plans would function. Drawing on his expertise in management, he explains in detail how firms could be managed along socialist lines. This practical bent also characterises a new book by Christine Berry and Joe Guinan, two researchers close to Britain’s Labour Party. In “People Get Ready!” they explain what may be required if a socialist Labour government is to succeed—from imposing capital controls to activists keeping up the pressure on elected politicians if they go soft. 

In a few short years socialists have gone from political and intellectual irrelevance to sketching out plans for government. One big question they face, however, is whether ordinary people have the stomach for the kind of change they envisage. Ms Berry and Mr Guinan appear to accept that a future Labour government’s fight with international finance might turn Britain into what they call a “siege economy”. This is “not particularly desirable as a long-term solution”, they concede; most Britons might object more bluntly. Mr Piketty’s proposed wealth tax of up to 90% would play havoc with incentives to invest, while under Mr Adler’s vision the “entire apparatus of the stock and bond market will disappear”—though, happily, “your phone will be yours to keep or to trade.” 

Mr Milanovic sympathises with the socialists’ yearning for radical change. But ultimately he finds many of their prescriptions unconvincing. A country which tried to de-marketise on the scale [`envisaged`](  "If you envisage something, you imagine that it is true, real, or likely to happen. 设想") by the millennial socialists would, he says, be unstable and dissatisfied in other ways. Shifting towards a much shorter working week, for instance, would surely leave it poorer than its neighbours—and for how long would people put up with that? Capitalism is far from perfect, his book shows, yet after the fall of the Berlin Wall it is hard to shake the notion that it is the only system that broadly works. The millennial socialists are on the up, but they may still struggle to prove him wrong.

***