---
layout:     post
title:      英语笔记|The Economist
subtitle:   20191109期
date:       2019-11-10
author:     Jinga
catalog: true
tags:
    - 英语笔记
    - The Economist
---
* [Books and arts](#1)
  * [A century ago America saved millions of Russians from starvation](#1.1)
  * [An imperial palace, a prison—and now a symbolic museum](#1.2)
  * [Palm Beach and the rise of American celebrity](#1.3)
  * [The art and loves of George Eliot](#1.4)
  * [The slippery talent of Emmanuel Carrère](#1.5)
* [Leaders](#2)
  * [A new type of genetic profiling promises cleverer, better-looking children.](#2.1)
  * [Assessing Emmanuel Macron’s apocalyptic vision ](#2.2)
  * [Billionaires are only rarely policy failures ](#2.3)
  * [How to stop Cameroon collapsing into a full-fledged civil war](#2.4)
  * [Women in public life are increasingly subject to sexual slander. Don’t believe it](#2.5)
* [Briefing](#3)
  * [Emmanuel Macron on Europe’s fragile place in a hostile world](#3.1)
* [The world this week](#4)
  * [Business this week ](#4.1)
  * [Politics this week ](#4.2)
* [Business](#5)
  * [A postcard from Hong Kong ](#5.1)
  * [A three-way battle over control of PG&E ](#5.2)
  * [Hard times for SoftBank](#5.3)
  * [How to make your firm more diverse and inclusive](#5.4)
  * [Japan Inc has thrived in China of late ](#5.5)
  * [McDonald’s fires its boss over a workplace romance](#5.6)
  * [Take the money and run](#5.7)
  * [TikTok’s silly clips raise some serious questions](#5.8)
* [Science and technology](#6)
  * [Modern genetics will improve health and usher in “designer” children](#6.1)
* [Obituary](#7)
  * [Obituary: Huang Yong Ping died on October 20th ](#7.1)
<h2 id="1">Books and arts</h2>

***
<h3 id="1.1">A century ago America saved millions of Russians from starvation</h3>
The Russian Job. By Douglas Smith.Farrar, Straus and Giroux; 320 pages; $28. Picador; £25. 

TO MOST PEOPLE shaped by the cold war—and today’s icy relations—Russia and America may seem always to have been [`sworn`](  "If two people or two groups of people are sworn enemies, they dislike each other very much. 不共戴天的")<sup>发过誓的</sup> enemies. When the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991 America celebrated victory. When Vladimir Putin set out to avenge history and make Russia great again, he whipped up anti-American [`hysteria`](  "Hysteria among a group of people is a state of uncontrolled excitement, anger, or panic. 歇斯底里")<sup>歇斯底里</sup> and scorned Washington’s overreach. For his part, Donald Trump—who thinks America has in the past been a soft touch—in effect [`concurred`](    "If one person concurs with another person, the two people agree. You can also say that two people concur. 意见一致")<sup>一致</sup> with Mr Putin’s criticism, pledging to put narrow American interests first. 

In recounting America’s biggest ever humanitarian effort—to save millions of lives in the [`nascent`](  "Nascent things or processes are just beginning, and are expected to become stronger or to grow bigger. 新生的; 初期的")<sup>初期的</sup> Soviet state a century ago—“The Russian Job” by Douglas Smith repudiates the modern mythologies of both countries, and their leaders’ twisted histories. Already ravaged by wars and revolution, in 1920-22 Russia was hit by [`droughts`](   "A drought is a long period of time during which no rain falls. 干旱")<sup>干旱</sup> and faced one of Europe’s worst ever famines. It was partly self-induced: terrorised by the Red Army and threatened with requisitions and executions, Russian peasants drastically reduced the land under cultivation, sowing the minimum required for their own survival. 

[`Acutely`](    "If you feel or notice something acutely, you feel or notice it very strongly. 强烈地")<sup>强烈地</sup> aware that food meant power, Vladimir Lenin abandoned War Communism in favour of a new economic policy that replaced requisition with taxes and made some concession to capitalism. But it was too late. By the end of 1921, the vast territory along the Volga [`succumbed`]( "If you succumb to temptation or pressure, you do something that you want to do, or that other people want you to do, although you feel it might be wrong. (向诱惑、压力) 屈服")<sup>屈服</sup> to [`starvation`](  "Starvation is extreme suffering or death, caused by lack of food. 饥饿; 饿死")<sup>饿死</sup> and [`cannibalism`]( "If a group of people practise cannibalism, they eat the flesh of other people. 同类相食")<sup>食人</sup> 

Having come to power on the promise to provide bread and end war, the Bolsheviks confronted the prospect of being swept away by hunger. Unable to feed their own people, the leaders of the [`proletarian`](    "Proletarian means relating to the proletariat. 无产阶级的")<sup>无产阶级的</sup> revolution turned to the West for help. Maxim Gorky, a Bolshevik writer who had once `demonised`<sup>使成为魔鬼</sup> American capitalism, appealed to “all honest European and American people” to “give bread and medicine”. 

The appeal struck a chord with Herbert Hoover, founding chief of the American Relief Administration (ARA). The future president responded not out of sympathy for the “murderous tyranny” of the Bolshevik regime, but from faith in America’s mission—and ability—to improve the world. If children were starving, America was obliged to ease their suffering. “We must make some distinction between the Russian people and the group who have seized the government,” Hoover argued. 

The ARA’s insistence on complete autonomy made the Soviet government suspicious, as did its pledge to help without regard to “race, creed or social status”. After all, the regime had `liquidated`<sup>清算</sup> entire classes of citizens and nationalised not only private property but human life. Still, given a choice between losing face or losing the country, the Bolsheviks conceded the ARA’s conditions—while putting the operation under surveillance by the secret police. 

Mr Smith’s book is not a political history, however. It is principally a reconstruction of the lives of those ARA men, many from military backgrounds, who over two and a half years in effect took over the functions of civil government in Russia, feeding some 10m people. In the Volga region, where residents were driven by hunger to boil and eat human flesh, the ARA organised kitchens and transport, distributed food and rebuilt hospitals. 

The misery they encountered in Russia strained their nerves to the point of breakdown and despair, but also [`imbued`]( "If someone or something is imbued with an idea, feeling, or quality, they become filled with it. 灌输; 使充满")<sup>灌溉</sup> their careers with meaning. “It is only by being of service that one can be happy,” an ARA officer wrote. “The help given by the Americans can never be forgotten, and the story of their glorious exploit will be toldby grandfathers to their grandchildren,” grateful Russians told them. 

Yet the [`duplicity`](  "If you accuse someone of duplicity, you mean that they are deceitful. 奸诈")<sup>口是心非</sup> and [`paranoia`](  "If you say that someone suffers from paranoia, you think that they are too suspicious and afraid of other people. 多疑; 恐惧")<sup>偏执狂</sup> of the Soviet government haunted the ARA’s operation to the very end. While publicly Bolshevik leaders showered the Americans with praise and thanks, the secret police instructed local officials: “Under no circumstances are there to be any large displays or expressions of gratitude made in the name of the people.” No sooner was the Russian job done than the authorities began to [`expunge`](  "If you expunge something, you get rid of it completely, because it causes problems or bad feelings. 清除; 抹去")<sup>擦去</sup> all memory of America’s help. 

The edition of the Great Soviet Encyclopedia of 1950 described the ARA as a front “for spying and wrecking activities and for supporting counter-revolutionary elements”. Modern Russian textbooks barely mention the episode. But it is not just Russia that needs to be reminded of this story—so does America, which derived much of its 20th-century greatness from its values rather than military power. As Gorky told Hoover: “The generosity of the American people `resuscitates`<sup>复兴</sup> the dream of `fraternity`<sup>友谊</sup> among people at a time when humanity needs charity and compassion.”


***
<h3 id="1.2">An imperial palace, a prison—and now a symbolic museum</h3>
THE STAIRS rise elegantly, twisting towards the heavens. At the top is the small room where Emperor Menelik II prayed for God’s blessing as he dramatically enlarged Ethiopia’s territory in the last decades of the 19th century. The watchtower, as this wing of the palace is known, was also a perfect vantage point for surveying his subjects on the open plain beneath its windows. It was here that Menelik founded Addis Ababa, the Ethiopian capital, in 1886. The grand palace he built on a hilltop became the heart of each regime that succeeded his, through wars and revolutions. 

Now it is to be a symbol for a new era. Last month, after winning the Nobel peace prize, Abiy Ahmed, Ethiopia’s prime minister, opened the old palace to the public for the first time since the [`aftermath`]( "The aftermath of an important event, especially a harmful one, is the situation that results from it. (灾难性大事件的) 后果")<sup>后果</sup> of the revolution that overthrew Emperor Haile Selassie in 1974. At a cost of $170m (paid by the United Arab Emirates, a close ally), it is by far the country’s glitziest museum. As well as the palace itself, the site has state-of-the-art galleries that narrate Ethiopian history; a [`botanical`]( "Botanical books, research, and activities relate to the scientific study of plants. 植物学的")<sup>植物学的</sup> garden; a pavilion with exhibits on the country’s nine regions; and two black-maned Abyssinian lions [`dozing`]( "When you doze, you sleep lightly or for a short period, especially during the daytime. 打盹儿")<sup>打盹儿</sup> in a den. “In all Ethiopian history, wherever there is a palace there must be a lion,” explains Abebaw Ayelaw, the curator. 

Unity Park, as the attraction is known, has already received more than 17,000 visitors. “Let God bless you,” gushes a middle-aged woman to Tamrat Haile, the museum’s overall boss, as she emerges from an `ornately`<sup>装饰过分地</sup> decorated banquet hall. Inside is a `waxwork`<sup>蜡像</sup> model of Menelik sitting on his original throne; some visitors prostrate themselves in [`deference`](   "Deference is a polite and respectful attitude toward someone, especially because they have an important position. 敬重")<sup>尊重</sup>. The passions excited by the museum `testify`<sup>作证</sup> to the power of Ethiopia’s past both to inspire and divide. For the country’s current rulers, reconfiguring its heritage is a means to confer legitimacy and foster national unity, at a time when both are in question. 

Abiy has put the renovation and celebration of historical sites at the centre of his politics. “Our job is to shake the dust off Ethiopia,” he maintained in a documentary about Unity Park broadcast on state television in September. Nearby Jubilee Palace, built by Haile Selassie in the 1950s, is also being rehabilitated (with French funds) and will eventually open to the public. Another new museum in Addis Ababa will commemorate Menelik’s defeat of the invading Italians in 1896; at least four more royal palaces in smaller towns are to become museums, too. Two ancient Christian sites, in the highland towns of Axum and Lalibela, are undergoing restoration. 

Unity Park emphasises ordered progress over violent rupture. On a wall outside the palace hang portraits of every Ethiopian leader from Menelik to Abiy’s predecessor, Hailemariam Desalegn. A gallery inside the classical-style throne hall, where there is a waxwork of Haile Selassie (pictured), outlines the contributions of each to the country’s development. Menelik’s successor, Lij Iyasu, is noted for his role in establishing the first police force. Mengistu Haile Mariam, the bloodstained [`dictator`](  "A dictator is a ruler who has complete power in a country, especially power which was obtained by force and is used unfairly or cruelly. 独裁者")<sup>独裁者</sup> of the 1970s and 1980s, is praised for defending Ethiopia from the invading Somalis—though an excellent exhibition in the palace’s basement, dedicated to those who were imprisoned there during the revolution Mengistu led, helps balance the picture of him. 

The current prime minister, who took office in 2018 and promises Ethiopia’s first free election next May, presents all this as a break with the past. “Previously, when a government changed it would remove all the marks of its predecessor,” comments Abebaw, the curator. When Mengistu’s communist junta, known as the Derg, seized power in 1974, imperial statues were torn down. Some were dumped in the garden of the National Museum, where they still lie; others were destroyed. Elias Wondimu, a publisher who has opened a shop in Unity Park, remembers buying coffee beans wrapped in pages torn from history books. Shiferaw Bekele, a historian, recalls bonfires of books that included Haile Selassie’s autobiography. The revolutionary fervour was so intense that even the royal lions were killed. 

When the Derg itself was overthrown in 1991, the incoming Ethiopian People’s Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) followed suit. Unsurprisingly, a statue of Lenin was `toppled`<sup>倒下</sup>. But imperial heritage was also in the firing line. “There was a very organised, systematic attempt to destroy the image of Menelik,” says Shiferaw. A [`controversy`](   "Controversy is a lot of discussion and argument about something, often involving strong feelings of anger or disapproval. 论战")<sup>辩论</sup> about the fate of his statue in Addis Ababa triggered large protests in its defence. The monument survived, but remains a source of tension. 

The decision to turn Menelik’s palace into a museum is even more [`contentious`](   "A contentious issue causes a lot of disagreement or arguments. 引起争议的")<sup>有异议的</sup>. Several bigwigs from Abiy’s ethnic group, the Oromo, snubbed the inauguration and instead visited a memorial to Oromo victims of the emperor’s military campaigns. His armies committed mass atrocities, they say, so he should not be celebrated. 

At the bottom of this heritage drive is a highly charged question: is Ethiopia an old nation or the product of a [`rapacious`]( "If you describe a person or their behaviour as rapacious, you disapprove of their greedy or selfish behaviour. 贪婪的")<sup>贪婪的</sup> modern empire? It is a `well-worn`<sup>老生常谈的</sup> but neuralgic dispute. In the past 18 months alone hundreds of Ethiopians have been killed and millions uprooted by ethnic conflicts that often draw on historical [`grievances`](    "If you have a grievance about something that has happened or been done, you believe that it was unfair. 委屈; 不满")<sup>委屈</sup>, real or exaggerated. “The problem is, we don’t have a [`consensus`](  "A consensus is general agreement among a group of people. 共识")<sup>共识</sup> on the fundamentals of our history,” notes Mulugeta Gebrehiwot, author of a book on the EPRDF. 

Abiy tends to stress nationhood, with its sense of gradual consolidation, rather than the frictions of empire; according to the museum, Ethiopia is a nation with ancient roots. But that, too, puts the prime minister `at odds`<sup>争执</sup> with those in his party who decry past imperial conquests. Some think he has been `precipitous`<sup>鲁莽的</sup> in opening Unity Park. “There needs to be a political consensus,” says Mohammed Girma, a religious scholar. “It’s a good idea but he should’ve consulted his Oromo constituency rather than rushing to build it.” 

The museum’s overseers are [`unmoved`]( "If you are unmoved by something, you are not emotionally affected by it. 无动于衷的")<sup>无动于衷的</sup> by the criticisms. “We have to respect what happened in the past,” argues Abebaw. “We cannot always be at odds with it.” Tamrat, the director, is gathering exhibits for the rooms that remain empty. Many Ethiopian artefacts have been `looted`<sup>掠夺</sup>; others are still in private hands. Though some individuals have begun donating items, Tamrat says, others are cautious. After all, family homes can be safer than museums in a place where history is a battlefield.

***
<h3 id="1.3">Palm Beach and the rise of American celebrity</h3>
Palm Beach, Mar-a-Lago and the Rise of America’s `Xanadu`<sup>世外桃源</sup>. By Les Standiford.Atlantic Monthly Press; 288 pages; $27. 

“THE RICH are different from you and me, we all know that even if some of the people in Palm Beach don’t,” the writer Nora Ephron said of the town in south Florida where society is the local industry. In “Palm Beach, Mar-a-Lago and the Rise of America’s Xanadu”, Les Standiford, author of a book about Andrew Carnegie and Henry Clay Frick, traces the history of a sandbar lifted from `swamp`<sup>沼泽</sup> and scrub to `gilded`<sup>镀金的</sup> glory by the Florida East Coast Railway line. 

Lapped by the Atlantic to the east and Lake Worth to the west, Palm Beach has been home to an epic cast of characters. Henry Flagler, who laid the railway at the turn of the 20th century, also built a string of `majestic`<sup>庄严的</sup> hotels—including the Ponce de Leon in St Augustine and the Royal Poinciana and the Breakers in Palm Beach itself. Marjorie Merriweather Post, a cereal `heiress`<sup>女继承人</sup> and `philanthropist`<sup>慈善家</sup>, built the 115-room Mar-a-Lago (dismissed by a local as “early Bastardian Spanish”) and took four husbands. The architect Addison Mizner set the town’s Mediterranean-Moorish tone (“Ali Baba Comes to Florida,” judges Mr Standiford). Among the newest arrivals are iguanas `inadvertently`<sup>无心地</sup> introduced from South America. 

Palm Beach, Mr Standiford observes in a book that will appeal to nose-pressed-against-the-glass readers, helped redefine class in America. Once upon a time, status was [`predicated`]( "If you say that one situation is predicated on another, you mean that the first situation can be true or real only if the second one is true or real. 基于; 取决于")<sup>断言</sup> on `lineage`<sup>血统</sup> and ancestors who had arrived on the Mayflower. That was before celebrity “became the new `imprimatur`<sup>许可</sup> of consequence”. Newport, Rhode Island? `Stale`<sup>缺乏新鲜感的</sup> upper crust. Saratoga Springs? That crème de la crème had curdled. For social [`cachet`]( "If someone or something has a certain cachet, they have a quality which makes people admire them or approve of them. 威信")<sup>威望</sup> without the prerequisite of [`pedigree`](   "Someone's pedigree is their background or their ancestors. (人的) 背景; 出身")<sup>血统</sup>, up-and-coming Americans looked to Palm Beach, which has welcomed the Duke and Duchess of Windsor, King Hussein of Jordan and the pornographer Larry Flynt. 

It was also where, in 2005, Melania Knauss, a model, married reality-show host, future president and [`latter-day`](    "Latter-day is used to describe someone or something that is a modern equivalent of a person or thing in the past. (旧时的人或物的)当代翻版的")<sup>当代的</sup> lord of Mar-a-Lago Donald Trump, with Elton John and Hillary and Bill Clinton among the big names and net worths in attendance. Buying Mar-a-Lago and its [`furnishings`]( "If you furnish a room or building, you put furniture and furnishings into it. 装潢; 布置 (房间、建筑物)")<sup>装潢</sup> for $8m in 1985 was Mr Trump’s ticket to Palm Beach—now his permanent residence after he and New York fell out of love. Post had [`bequeathed`](  "If you bequeath your money or property to someone, you legally state that they should have it when you die. 遗赠")<sup>遗赠</sup> the property to the National Park Service in 1973, for use as a winter White House, but in 1981 Congress returned it to the Post Foundation as too expensive to maintain. It was put on the market and Mr Trump [`snapped it up`](   "If you snap something up, you buy it quickly because it is cheap or is just what you want. 争购")<sup>抢购</sup>. 

Now it is a private club, with a portrait of Post on a wall in the former library, across from a younger version of the current [`proprietor`]( "The proprietor of a hotel, shop, newspaper, or other business is the person who owns it. 业主")<sup>业主</sup> in tennis gear. The announcement, when the club opened, that Prince Charles and Lady Diana had bought memberships was “rubbish”, said Buckingham Palace; but Mr Trump was `undeterred`<sup>未受阻的</sup>. “Even people who hate me are joining the club,” he crowed. The initiation fee is now said to be $200,000. One day, probably, rising seas will sink Palm Beach and leave behind a level, if [`soggy`](    "Something that is soggy is unpleasantly wet. 湿乎乎的")<sup>透湿的</sup>, playing field.

***
<h3 id="1.4">The art and loves of George Eliot</h3>
In Love with George Eliot. By Kathy O’Shaughnessy.Scribe; 400 pages; £16.99. 

THIS MONTH marks the 200th anniversary of the birth of George Eliot—author of one of the greatest novels of the Victorian or any age, “Middlemarch”, a social `panorama`<sup>全景</sup> set in a provincial English town in the years before the Reform Act of 1832 and the transformative arrival of the railway. “One of the few English novels written for grown-up people,” according to Virginia Woolf, “Middlemarch” was probably based on `Coventry`<sup>放逐</sup>, where Eliot—real name Marian Evans—had partly grown up. 

She `reluctantly`<sup>不情愿地</sup> revealed her true identity after the publication of her first novel, “Adam Bede”, in 1859, and was almost as well known for her `scandalous`<sup>可耻的</sup> private life as for her books. A respected scholar and the first female supremo of the Westminster Review, she lived openly with a married man, George Henry Lewes; her writing supported not only their household but that of his wife, Agnes, their children and Agnes’s by another man. Less than two years after Lewes’s death in 1878, the author caused more outrage by marrying John Walter Cross, a family friend 20 years her junior, who in a fit of [`mania`](    "Mania is a mental illness which causes the sufferer to become very worried or concerned about something. 狂躁症")<sup>狂躁</sup> attempted suicide on their honeymoon in Venice. In December 1880, seven months after their wedding—and just after her 61st birthday—she died. 

“In Love with George Eliot”, Kathy O’Shaughnessy’s sensitive, `impeccably`<sup>无可挑剔地</sup> researched and deeply pleasurable debut novel, charts Eliot’s development as a writer and growing celebrity, her sincere happiness with Lewes, terrible grief at his death and unexpected joy at her new (and finally respectable) married status. As the best historical novels do, it absorbs the reader to such an extent that, even if they know the outline of the story, each page is a revelation. Quoting from original letters and other documents, it shimmers with the `refracted`<sup>折射的</sup> light of another age; the account of a modern-day love triangle between three Eliot experts, which Ms O’Shaughnessy intercuts with chapters on the novelist and her circle, enhances the main picture. 

Eliot’s own unconventional looks, lifestyle and opinions are rendered `compellingly`<sup>咄咄逼人地</sup>. To many—including some well-drawn, `fervent`<sup>热心的</sup> female acolytes—her combination of sincerity, `neediness`<sup>贫穷</sup>, ambition and sympathy were `alluring`<sup>吸引人的</sup>. These qualities found a natural outlet in her writing. “It seems to me we can never give up longing and wishing while we are thoroughly alive,” remarks a character in “The Mill on the Floss”. In her own novel, Ms O’Shaughnessy brings this mix of intensity and playfulness winningly to life.

***
<h3 id="1.5">The slippery talent of Emmanuel Carrère</h3>
97,196 Words. By Emmanuel Carrère. Translated by John Lambert.Farrar, Straus & Giroux; 294 pages; $28. Jonathan Cape; £18.99. 

EMMANUEL CARRèRE is known for the way he bends and breaks genres. His essays and books pick through the minds of murderers, con-men, Russian revolutionaries, artists, `power-brokers`<sup>权力经纪人</sup>, addicts and the [`downtrodden `](  "People who are downtrodden are treated very badly by people with power, and do not have the ability or the energy to do anything about it. 受压迫的")<sup>受压迫的</sup>; even his own friends, family and lovers. He started as a novelist in his 20s and 30s, and now, at 61, is the most celebrated writer of high-end nonfiction in France. What distinguishes his `prose`<sup>散文</sup> is not its lyricism—as John Lambert’s translation conveys, it is simple and spare—but his intrusive, philosophical first-person voice. Mr Carrère is a character in his narratives and portraits, always there reminding you that it’s him, Emmanuel, writing the words that you are reading. 

In this collection of his essays, an interview with Catherine Deneuve, an actor, turns into the story, “How I Completely `Botched`<sup>糟蹋</sup> My Interview with Catherine Deneuve”; a column for an Italian magazine revolves around Mr Carrère’s fraught correspondence with his editor; and a report on a crime is rendered as a personal letter to the mother of the killer. The author is everywhere. At first, this relentless self-reflection seems `solipsistic`<sup>唯我论的</sup> and overdone—a kind of post-modern posturing—but the ultimate effects are `subtler`<sup>微妙的</sup> and deeper. Readers learn far more about Ms Deneuve, her `cunning`<sup>狡猾的</sup> and restraint, than other writers might relay, and all this happens while Mr Carrère is detailing his own nervousness and the supposed failure of the encounter. At bottom, he has two `exceptional`<sup>异常的</sup>, but rather traditional, writerly gifts: psychological [`acuity`](    "Acuity is sharpness of vision or hearing, or quickness of thought. (视觉或听觉)敏锐度; (思维)敏捷度")<sup>敏锐</sup> and narrative tautness. And he has learned how to dress those skills in clever conceits. 

Mr Carrère’s trademark style crystallised while he was working on his book “The [`Adversary`](  "Your adversary is someone you are competing with, or arguing or fighting against. 对手")<sup>对手</sup>” (2000). It was intended as an account of Jean-Claude Romand, a French murderer who in 1993 killed his wife, children, parents and dog, and attempted to kill himself, after almost two decades of pretending to be a researcher at the World Health Organisation. Inspired by Truman Capote’s “In Cold Blood”, Mr Carrère tried, and failed, to write the book for six years; then, a few days after abandoning the project, he sat down and penned a simple report for himself, summarising the work he had done. It began: “On the Saturday morning of January 9th 1993, while Jean-Claude Romand was killing his wife and children, I was with mine in a parent-teacher meeting at the school attended by Gabriel, our eldest son.” After a few pages, Mr Carrère realised that he was writing the very book that had [`eluded`](  "If a fact or idea eludes you, you do not succeed in understanding it, realizing it, or remembering it. 把…难住")<sup>难住</sup> him for years. It was simply a matter of “saying yes to the first person”.  

This accidental style has since become a sort of [`credo`]( "A credo is a set of beliefs, principles, or opinions that strongly influence the way a person lives or works. 信条")<sup>信条</sup>. It is `mendacious`<sup>虚假的</sup>, Mr Carrère suggests, for authors to pretend that they exist above or outside a  `rigorously`<sup>严厉地</sup> crafted piece of writing, as Capote did for instance. “I don’t think you can put yourself in other people’s positions. Nor should you,” he has argued. “All you can do is occupy your own, as fully as possible, and say that you are trying to imagine what it’s like to be someone else, but say it’s you who’s imagining it, and that’s all. 

It is hard to tell whether this is philosophical high-mindedness or `faux`<sup>人造的</sup> naivety—because the core of Mr Carrère’s talent is precisely that he brings readers into sympathetic contact with others, powerful and powerless, insiders and outsiders. His own textual persona is less flesh-and-blood than an [`ethereal`]( "Someone or something that is ethereal has a delicate beauty. 优雅的")<sup>优雅的</sup>, emotionally distant presence. His “I” becomes a transparency, a way of portraying others—whether it be a bereaved parent or President Emmanuel Macron—through himself. It is a masterful illusion. The more words Mr Carrère expends on his own life, the farther away he seems, and the closer the reader gets to the lives of others.

***
<h2 id="2">Leaders</h2>

***
<h3 id="2.1">A new type of genetic profiling promises cleverer, better-looking children</h3>
DEBATE ABOUT using science to create “bespoke” human beings of one sort or another usually revolves around the ideas of genetic engineering and cloning. People worry about these for two reasons. One is practical. The [`tinkering`]( "If you tinker with something, you make some small changes to it, in an attempt to improve it or repair it. 小修改")<sup>小修改</sup> involved could end up harming the resulting individual. The other is a more [`visceral`](    "Visceral feelings are feelings that you feel very deeply and find it difficult to control or ignore, and that are not the result of thought. 发自肺腑的; 出自内心的")<sup>发自内心的</sup> dislike of interfering with the process of reproduction, perhaps best [`encapsulated`]( "To encapsulate particular facts or ideas means to represent all their most important aspects in a very small space or in a single object or event. 概括")<sup>概况</sup> in the phrase “playing God”. 

There is, however, a third way that the genetic dice which are thrown at the beginning of human life might be loaded—and it does not involve any risky tinkering. It is a twist on the well-established procedure of in `vitro`<sup>试管</sup> fertilisation (IVF). The twist would be to decide, on the basis of their DNA, which of a group of available embryos should be implanted and brought to term. 

The result would be a child optimised with the best-available genetic profile for a long and healthy life. And this is not science fiction. Two American firms have been working on the idea for some time, and one of them is now implementing it (see article). 

Single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP, or “snip”) profiling, as the technique is called, promises healthier [`offspring`](    "You can refer to a person's children or to an animal's young as their offspring. 子女; 幼崽")<sup>后代</sup>—a clear good. It may also provide a way to upgrade things only tangentially associated with health, such as height and, more `controversially`<sup>颇有争议的</sup>, intelligence. Moreover, it is a technique that could be applied generation on generation, to improve grandchildren and great-grandchildren still further. 

SNPs are the smallest possible differences between individuals’ DNA—single genetic letters. Individually, most have little consequence. But there are millions of them in every human genome and their combined effects can be big. SNP profiling looks for particular combinations of SNPs that research has shown are associated with the risks of developing illnesses such as cancer, `diabetes`<sup>糖尿病</sup> and heart disease. This is important medical information for people now alive, and can be used to recommend screening programmes, changes of behaviour and `prophylactic`<sup>预防疾病的</sup> drugs. 

For those willing to undergo IVF, and with the money to pay for it, it may also be possible to SNP-profile an embryo and thus foretell its future. As well as disease risk, height and intelligence, SNP-profiling might eventually be capable of predicting [`albeit`](   "You use albeit to introduce a fact or comment that reduces the force or significance of what you have just said. 尽管")<sup>虽然</sup> imperfectly, for environment also plays a role) things as diverse as television-viewing habits, likelihood of being bullied at school and probability of getting divorced. 

At the moment, non-medical attributes are not on the menu offered by would-be embryo SNP-profilers. But if the technique works it is hard to believe that they will not be on someone’s menu in the future. And that does raise questions. 

What all this [`amounts to`](   "If you say that one thing amounts to something else, you consider the first thing to be the same as the second thing. 等同于")<sup>相当于</sup> is, in essence, a supercharged version of an existing process known as `assortative mating`<sup>婚姻市场</sup>. It is already true that intelligent, successful (and therefore probably rich) people seek each other out as partners. In doing so, they bring to the table whatever genetic variations helped make them intelligent, successful and rich, which they then pass on to their children. SNP profiling—available, at least to start with, only to those who can afford it—will enhance that by letting parents pick tall, good-looking and above all clever offspring. 

For a single generation, that may not matter too much to the rest of society. It would be but one extra privilege that the rich enjoy. Piled generation on generation, however, it really might create a genetic elite. SNP-profiling is already used to enhance desired attributes in [`livestock`](   "Animals such as cattle and sheep which are kept on a farm are referred to as livestock. 家畜")<sup>家畜</sup>, so it seems reasonable to assume it will work on people. 

Perhaps that is tomorrow’s problem. For the moment there seems no reason beyond envy to oppose embryo SNP-profiling. But, from H.G. Wells’s Eloi in “The Time Machine” to Aldous Huxley’s Alphas in “Brave New World”, science fiction is full of breeding programmes for elite humans that have gone wrong. Sci-fi always enjoys portraying dystopias, and mostly they do not come true. But it might be wise to debate the matter now, just in case this time people really are unknowingly playing God.

***
<h3 id="2.2">Assessing Emmanuel Macron’s apocalyptic vision</h3>
TODAY’S EUROPE owes its existence to the United States. America fought two world wars on European soil; American diplomacy was midwife to what became the European Union; American arms protected western Europe from Soviet invasion; and American statesmen oversaw German unification. Now, in a dramatic plea to all Europeans, France’s president, Emmanuel Macron, has warned that America is cutting Europe loose. The old continent is “on the edge of a [`precipice`]( "If you say that someone is on the edge of a precipice, you mean that they are in a dangerous situation in which they are extremely close to disaster or failure. 险境; 危局")<sup>险境</sup>”, he warns. Unless it wakes up, “we will no longer be in control of our destiny.” 

In his Elysée Palace office, Mr Macron spoke to The Economist in apocalyptic terms (see article). NATO, the transatlantic alliance, is suffering from “brain-death”, he says; Europe needs to develop a military force of its own. The EU thinks of itself as just a market, but it needs to act as a political bloc, with policies on technology, data and climate change to match. Past French presidents have argued that Europe cannot rely on America, and should look to France instead. Mr Macron is not just rehashing this view. He believes that America and Europe have shared interests and has worked tirelessly to keep good relations with President Donald Trump. But he argues that for the first time America has a president who “does not share our idea of the European project”. And even if Mr Trump is not re-elected, historical forces are pulling the old allies apart. 

American priorities are changing. When President Barack Obama, who was intent on pivoting towards Asia, chose not to punish the use of chemical weapons in Syria it signalled that America was losing interest in the Middle East. Mr Trump’s recent abandonment of America’s Kurdish allies in Syria not only reinforced this, but also undermined NATO. America did not inform its allies, and Turkey, a NATO member, promptly invaded Syria. “Strategically and politically,” Mr Macron says, “we need to recognise that we have a problem.” 

Asked whether he is confident that an attack on one NATO member would today be seen as an attack on all—the idea that [`underpins`](    "If one thing underpins another, it helps the other thing to continue or succeed by supporting and strengthening it. 支撑; 加固")<sup>巩固</sup> the alliance’s credibility—Mr Macron says that he does not know. He acknowledges that NATO thrives operationally, but he calls for Europe “to reassess the reality of what NATO is in the light of the commitment of the United States.” 

Europe, he says, has yet to grasp the immensity of the challenge ahead. It still treats the world as if commerce and trade alone were able to ensure peace. But America, the guarantor of world trade, is becoming protectionist. Authoritarian powers are on the rise—including Russia and Turkey on Europe’s borders. While America and China spend vast sums on artificial intelligence, which they see as an essential component of their hard power, the EU devolves too much say to industry. Mr Macron warns that slow-moving, head-in-the-clouds Europe must open its eyes and prepare itself for a tougher, less forgiving world. 

It is an astonishingly bleak picture for a centrist European politician and an avowed internationalist. But it is also unusually thought-through and, as far as Mr Macron is concerned, a `spur`<sup>鼓舞</sup> to action. It is hard to overstate the scale of the change he is asking from his fellow Europeans. 

Take defence. Mr Macron thinks that his new European Intervention Initiative and the EU’s Permanent Structured Co-operation, underpinned by the European Defence Fund, can integrate military operations and boost Europe’s capabilities, by implication providing a foundation for Europe’s post-NATO defence. But these building-blocks are `rudimentary`<sup>基本的</sup>. America’s departure would leave vast holes in areas like air and missile defence, intelligence and surveillance, and aerial refuelling. Its military budget is twice as large as the rest of NATO’s combined. European governments will be [`reluctant`]( "If you are reluctant to do something, you are unwilling to do it and hesitate before doing it, or do it slowly and without enthusiasm. 不愿意的; 勉强的")<sup>不情愿的</sup> to plug the gap, since they have other priorities. It may be easier to adapt NATO, so that it both protects Europe and is also more useful to the United States. 

And then there is diplomacy. Mr Macron thinks Europe can best establish its global influence as a power that mediates between the gorillas of China and the United States. Its role will be “to stop the whole world from catching fire”, he says. A first step would be to get a grip on its own region by rebuilding relations with Russia—a task that he accepts could well take a decade. 

Again, however, that ambition assumes a unity of purpose that the EU seldom achieves. Many of its members tend to [`shun`]( "If you shun someone or something, you deliberately avoid them or keep away from them. 有意回避")<sup>避免</sup> hard power for a foreign policy focused on human rights and commerce. As Mr Macron’s Russian proposal illustrates, power politics requires you to deal with people whose actions you [`deplore`](  "If you say that you deplore something, you think it is very wrong or immoral. 谴责")<sup>谴责</sup>. For him, realpolitik is necessary for European values to `prevail`<sup>流行</sup>. It is not clear his fellow European leaders would agree. 

Last is industrial policy. Mr Macron wants the state to take strategic decisions over key technologies, and favours a policy to foster European champions. This tends to channel funds and contracts to politically connected incumbents. A better way to create a `thriving`<sup>繁荣的</sup> technology ecosystem would be to encourage more competition. If Mr Macron will not embrace that, why should others? 

The EU’s formula is unique: an arrangement between states, without any `hegemon`<sup>经济霸主</sup>, that keeps the peace. But how do you get 27 countries—plus Britain, a big power now in the EU’s departure lounge—to agree to build fully functional armed forces, let alone convince Europe’s `foes`<sup>敌人</sup> that they would ever be used? Mr Macron’s critics [`scoff`](   "If you scoff at something, you speak about it in a way that shows you think it is ridiculous or inadequate. 嘲笑")<sup>嘲笑</sup> that he is “drunk on power”. Some countries, including Poland and the Baltic states, would be alarmed at the idea of parting with America and pursuing [`detente`](  "Detente is a state of friendly relations between two countries when previously there had been problems between them. (两国紧张关系的)缓和")<sup>缓和</sup> with Russia. Others, including Germany, Italy and Spain, are too [`embroiled`]( "If you become embroiled in a fight or argument, you become deeply involved in it. 使卷入的")<sup>牵连</sup> in domestic `woes`<sup>灾难</sup> to entertain a grand global vision. 

Plenty of times in the past, pious calls for Europe to make its weight felt in the world have turned out to be empty. This time, Mr Macron argues, must be different. He is asking his fellow leaders to imagine how Europe will `thrive`<sup>繁荣</sup> in a dangerous world without a cast-iron American alliance. How should they deal with Russia, with the conflict and religious fundamentalism roiling the Middle East and north Africa, and with the authoritarian challenge of China? He deserves an answer.

Dig deeper 

Briefing (November 7th): A president on a mission Transcript: Emmanuel Macron in his own words The Intelligence podcast: “He talked about Europe in almost apocalyptic terms”— Macron's interview 


***
<h3 id="2.3">Billionaires are only rarely policy failures</h3>

BASHING BILLIONAIRES is gaining popularity—especially among candidates to be America’s president. Elizabeth Warren wants to take up to 6% of their wealth in tax every year. Bernie Sanders says they “should not exist”. “Every billionaire is a policy failure,” goes a common left-wing slogan. In Britain’s election, too, the super-rich are under fire. Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the Labour Party, says that a fair society would contain none. On October 31st he vowed to [`go after`]( "If you go after something, you try to get it, catch it, or hit it. 追求,追捕,追击")<sup>追击</sup> Britain’s `plutocrats`<sup>富豪</sup>, [`singling out`](    "If you single someone out from a group, you choose them and give them special attention or treatment. 选出; 挑出")<sup>挑出</sup> five individuals and bemoaning a “corrupt system”. 

Left-wingers blasting inequality is nothing new. But the idea that vast personal fortunes are made possible only when government goes wrong is a more novel and serious idea. It is also misguided. Personal wealth is at best an unreliable signal of bad behaviour or failing policies. Often the `reverse`<sup>背面</sup> is true. 

The left’s charge is based on a kernel of truth. When competition is fierce and fair, persistently high profits should be difficult to sustain. Yet on both sides of the Atlantic too many companies  [`crank out`]( "If you say that a company or person cranks out a quantity of similar things, you mean they produce them quickly, in the same way, and are usually implying that the things are not original or are of poor quality. 迅速地大量滥制")<sup>粗制滥造</sup> `bumper`<sup>巨大的</sup> profits in concentrated markets. Some billionaires have thrived where competition has failed. Facebook and Google dominate online advertising; Warren Buffett likes firms with `“moats”`<sup>护城河</sup> that keep rivals out. Meanwhile America’s political system is riddled with `lobbyists`<sup>说客</sup> cheerleading for incumbents. About a fifth of America’s billionaires made their money in industries in which government capture or market failure is commonplace (see article). 

Yet many others operate in competitive markets. The retailers owned by Mike Ashley, one of Mr Corbyn’s targets, are known for low prices and `ruthless`<sup>无情的</sup> competition (as well as questionable working conditions), not rent-seeking. For every Mark Zuckerberg, the boss of Facebook, there are several technology entrepreneurs with lots of rivals. Think of Anthony Wood, who created Roku, a video-streaming platform; or Tim Sweeney, co-founder of the firm behind “Fortnite”, a video game. Nobody can seriously accuse these innovators of having sewn up their markets or of depending on state favours. The same goes for sportsmen such as Michael Jordan or musicians like Jay-Z, billionaires both. Even hedge funds face ferocious competition for investors’ funds, which is why so many are `throwing in the towel`<sup>认输</sup>. 

When capitalism functions well, competition whittles profits away for some but also produces them for others as entrepreneurs seize markets from sleepy incumbents. Their success will eventually set off another cycle of disruption, but in the meantime fortunes can be made. The founders of MySpace, a social-media website, got rich when they sold it to News Corp; Facebook subsequently ate its lunch. Blockbuster, a video-rental store, helped make Wayne Huizenga a billionaire; then Netflix arrived. This process creates vast benefits for society. According to estimates by William Nordhaus, an economist, between 1948 and 2001 innovators captured only 2% of the value they created. Perhaps that is why billionaires are tolerated even by countries with [`impeccable`]( "If you describe something such as someone's behaviour or appearance as impeccable, you are emphasizing that it is perfect and has no faults. 无可挑剔的")<sup>无可挑剔的</sup> social-democratic credentials: Sweden and Norway have more billionaires per person than America does. 

Taxes should be levied progressively. But that does not justify limitless redistribution or punitive levies. Ms Warren’s proposed wealth tax has already doubled once during her campaign. Thomas Piketty, an economist behind many of the most-cited inequality statistics, wants a wealth tax of up to 90% on the richest billionaires. Such `expropriation`<sup>征收</sup> would surely chill incentives to innovate and to allocate capital efficiently. An economy with fewer entrepreneurs might have fewer billionaires but would ultimately be less dynamic, leaving everyone worse off. 

Wealth is worrying when it becomes `entrenched`<sup>根深蒂固的</sup> or shielded from disruptive forces. Where that `decay`<sup>腐烂</sup> has set in, governments should tackle it directly. Whatever Mr Corbyn says, Britain is hardly corrupt by global standards—[`bribery`](   "Bribery is the act of offering someone money or something valuable in order to persuade them to do something for you. 贿赂行为")<sup>贿赂</sup> is rare, for example. But it does have a problem with inherited wealth, the source of one-fifth of billionaires’ fortunes. Higher inheritance taxes would be welcome there and in America, where it is too easy to pass wealth between the generations. 

A broader agenda of attacking rents while maintaining dynamism would weaken excessive intellectual-property and copyright protections, which often last too long. (Selling Lucasfilm more than three decades after the first “Star Wars” film should not have netted George Lucas $4bn.) It would shake up [`antitrust`](   "In the United States, antitrust laws are intended to stop big companies taking over their competitors, fixing prices with their competitors, or interfering with free competition in any way. 反垄断的")<sup>反垄断的</sup> enforcement to promote competition in old and new industries alike. Most important, it would fix America’s campaign-finance laws to rid its political system of corporate capture at both state and federal level. 

Doing all this would achieve much more than an [`indiscriminate`](  "If you describe an action as indiscriminate, you are critical of it because it does not involve any careful thought or choice. 任意而为的")<sup>任意而为的</sup> attack on the rich—and without the associated damage. By all means, correct policy failures. But billionaires are usually the wrong target.

***
<h3 id="2.4">How to stop Cameroon collapsing into a full-fledged civil war</h3>
FOR 37 YEARS one man has ruled Cameroon, a `staggeringly`<sup>摇晃地</sup> corrupt, oil-rich state in central Africa. President Paul Biya is an old-fashioned `autocrat`<sup>独裁者</sup>. When democracy swept across Africa after the cold war ended, he called it a “distasteful passing fetish”. Then he realised he would attract less foreign criticism if he quietly intimidated opponents and rigged elections instead of banning them. He has done so ever since, and kept on good terms with Western powers by posing as a champion of stability in a fissile region. His troops, trained and equipped by France, Israel and America, battle the `jihadists`<sup>圣战主义者</sup> of Boko Haram and Islamic State around Lake Chad. They also regularly don blue helmets to keep peace in countries such as the Central African Republic. Yet Mr Biya cannot keep the peace at home. 

Instead, a country that was once seen as an exporter of security is now being wrenched apart. A [`secession`](  "The secession of a region or group from the country or larger group to which it belongs is the action of formally becoming separate. (从国家或大集团中正式的)脱离")<sup>脱离</sup> struggle rages in its English-speaking regions. Government forces are burning villages, shooting young men and raping women (see article). The conflict has killed thousands and forced more than 500,000 people from their homes. 

The [`strife`]( "Strife is strong disagreement or fighting. 冲突")<sup>冲突</sup> began as a series of peaceful protests in 2016. Anglophones were [`aggrieved`](   "If you feel aggrieved, you feel upset and angry because of the way in which you have been treated. 愤愤不平的")<sup>受委屈的</sup> at their marginalisation in a country dominated by French-speakers. Cameroon is too `rigidly`<sup>严格地</sup> centralised to satisfy minorities: only 1% of government spending is locally controlled, compared with more than 50% in neighbouring Nigeria. Strikes and demonstrations over the erosion of English-style common law and the dominance of Francophone officials have since mutated into what looks like a civil war. It could get much worse, as chaos grows, armed separatists kill and soldiers inflict horrors on civilians. 

The outside world has barely noticed this disaster unfolding. Appeals for emergency assistance have attracted less than one-fifth of their target: less than half the people who have lost their homes have been given the two pieces of plastic and rope that make up the UN’s shelter kit. Cameroon’s main backers have looked away, hoping Mr Biya’s government would `quell`<sup>平息</sup> the rebellion and get back to fighting jihadists in the Sahel. Instead of corralling the warring parties, the African Union and UN Security Council have stood aside, rousing themselves only to “welcome” and “praise” Mr Biya’s “national dialogue”, a [`sham`](  "Something that is a sham is not real or is not really what it seems to be. 假的东西")<sup>假的东西</sup> to which key separatist leaders were not invited. 

This is a disgrace. The conflict, although bloody, is not `intractable`<sup>棘手的</sup>. Most people in Cameroon’s two English-speaking regions are probably moderate and would be happy with some more autonomy and an end to the fighting. They could find common ground with those on the government side who might be willing to give a bit more power to the regions. 

The longer the fighting persists, the harder it will be to resolve. With the army and separatists in [`stalemate`]( "Stalemate is a situation in which neither side in an argument or contest can win or in which no progress is possible. 僵局")<sup>僵局</sup> on the battlefield, peace can come only through talks. For those to happen, both sides need to build trust. The separatists should start by lifting the ruinous ban they enforce on children going to government schools in the areas they control, which threatens to create a lost generation of `illiterates`<sup>文盲</sup>. Rebel leaders abroad should `tone down`<sup>缓和</sup> their inflammatory talk of secession. The government should release political prisoners and prosecute soldiers responsible for abuses. 

Outsiders should press Mr Biya to make peace. President Donald Trump has rightly scaled back military assistance because of [`atrocities`]( "An atrocity is a very cruel, shocking action. 暴行")<sup>暴行</sup> committed by the army. He has also kicked Cameroon out of a programme which grants duty-free access to the US market to African countries that respect human rights. European governments should also turn the screws, especially France, Mr Biya’s closest ally. The ageing strongman once said that only one-party rule could hold Cameroon together. In fact, his overcentralised autocracy has created pressures that could blow it apart. Only dialogue and [`devolution`](   "Devolution is the transfer of some authority or power from a central organization or government to smaller organizations or government departments. (中央机构或政府权力的) 下放")<sup>权力下放</sup> can save it.


***
<h3 id="2.5">Women in public life are increasingly subject to sexual slander. Don’t believe it</h3>
ADULTERER, PERVERT, traitor, murderer. In France in 1793, no woman was more `relentlessly`<sup>残酷地</sup> slandered than Marie Antoinette. Political [`pamphlets`](   "A pamphlet is a very thin book with a paper cover that gives information about something. 小册子")<sup>小册子</sup> spread baseless rumours of her [`depravity`](  "Depravity is very dishonest or immoral behaviour. 堕落")<sup>堕落</sup>. Some drawings showed her with multiple lovers, male and female. Others portrayed her as a `harpy`<sup>鸟身女妖</sup>, a `notoriously`<sup>众所周知地</sup> disagreeable mythical beast that was half `bird-of-prey`<sup>食肉鸟</sup>, half woman. Such [`mudslinging`](   "If you accuse someone of mudslinging, you are accusing them of making insulting, unfair, and damaging remarks about their opponents. 诽谤; 中伤")<sup>诽谤</sup> served a political purpose. The revolutionaries who had overthrown the monarchy wanted to tarnish the former queen’s reputation before they cut off her head. 

She was a victim of something ancient and nasty that is becoming worryingly common: sexualised [`disinformation`](  "If you accuse someone of spreading disinformation, you are accusing them of spreading false information in order to deceive people. 假信息")<sup>虚假信息</sup> to undercut women in public life (see article). People have always invented rumours about such women. But three things have changed. Digital technology makes it easy to `disseminate`<sup>传播</sup> `libel`<sup>诽谤</sup> widely and anonymously. “Deepfake” techniques (manipulating images and video using artificial intelligence) make it cheap and simple to create convincing visual evidence that people have done or said things which they have not. And powerful actors, including governments and ruling parties, have `gleefully`<sup>欢欣地</sup> exploited these new opportunities. A report by researchers at Oxford this year found well-organised disinformation campaigns in 70 countries, up from 48 in 2018 and 28 in 2017. 

Consider the case of Rana Ayyub, an Indian journalist who tirelessly reports on corruption, and who wrote a book about the `massacre`<sup>大屠杀</sup> of Muslims in the state of Gujarat when Narendra Modi, now India’s prime minister, was in charge there. For years, critics `muttered`<sup>抱怨地说</sup> that she was unpatriotic (because she is a Muslim who criticises the ruling party) and a prostitute (because she is a woman). In April 2018 the abuse intensified. A deepfake sex video, which `grafted`<sup>嫁接</sup> her face over that of another woman, was published and went `viral`<sup>病毒性的</sup>. Digital `mobs`<sup>暴徒</sup> threatened to rape or kill her. She was “doxxed”: someone published her home address and phone number online. It is hard to prove who was behind this campaign of `intimidation`<sup>恐吓</sup>, but its purpose is obvious: to silence her, and any other woman thinking of criticising the `mighty`<sup>有势力的人</sup>. 

Similar [`tactics`](    "Tactics are the methods that you choose to use in order to achieve what you want in a particular situation. 战术")<sup>策略</sup> are used to [`deter`](   "To deter someone from doing something means to make them not want to do it or continue doing it. 阻止")<sup>阻止</sup> women from running for public office. In the [`run-up`]( "The run-up to an event is the period of time just before it. 前夕")<sup>预备阶段</sup> to elections in Iraq last year, two female candidates were humiliated with explicit videos, which they say were faked. One pulled out of the race. The types of image used to degrade women vary from place to place. In Myanmar, where [`antipathy`]( "Antipathy is a strong feeling of dislike or hostility toward someone or something. 憎恶")<sup>憎恶</sup> towards Muslims is widespread, [`detractors`](    "The detractors of a person or thing are people who criticize that person or thing. 诋毁者")<sup>诽谤者</sup> of Aung San Suu Kyi, the country’s de facto leader, circulated a photo manipulated to show her wearing a hijab. By contrast in Iran, an Islamist `theocracy`<sup>神政</sup>, a woman was disqualified from taking the seat she had won when a photo, which she claims is doctored, leaked showing her without one. 

High-tech sexual slander has not replaced the old-fashioned sort, which remains [`rife`](   "If you say that something, usually something bad, is rife in a place or that the place is rife with it, you mean that it is very common. (常指坏事) 普遍的; 猖獗的")<sup>普遍的</sup> wherever politicians and their propagandists can get away with it. In Russia, female `dissidents`<sup>持不同意见的</sup> are dubbed sexual deviants in pro-Kremlin media. In the Philippines, President Rodrigo Duterte has joked about showing a pornographic video of a female opponent, which she says is a fake, to the pope. In China, mainland-based trolls have spread lewd quotes falsely attributed to Tsai Ing-wen, Taiwan’s first female president. Beijing’s state media say she is “extreme” and “emotional” as a result of being unmarried and childless. 

Stamping out the problem altogether will be impossible. Anyone can make a deepfake sex video, or hire someone to do it, for a pittance, and then distribute it anonymously. Politicians will inevitably be targets. Laws against libel or invasion of privacy may deter some abuses, but they are not much use when the `perpetrator`<sup>犯罪者</sup> is unknown. Reputable tech firms will no doubt try to remove the most [`egregious`]( "Egregious means very bad and offensive. 极坏的; 极恶劣的")<sup>极坏的</sup> content, but there will always be other platforms, some of them hosted by regimes that actively `sow`<sup>播种</sup> disinformation in the West. 

So the best defence against sexual lies is [`scepticism`](  "Scepticism is great doubt about whether something is true or useful. 怀疑")<sup>怀疑主义</sup>. People should assume that videos showing female politicians naked or having sex are probably `bogus`<sup>伪造的</sup>. Journalists should try harder to expose the `peddlers`<sup>传播者</sup> of fake [`footage`](    "Footage of a particular event is a film of it or the part of a film which shows this event. (描述某一事件的) 片段镜头")<sup>片段镜头</sup>, rather than mindlessly linking to it. Some day, one hopes, voters may even decide that it is none of their business what public figures look like under their clothes, or which [`consenting adults`]( "A consenting adult is a person who is considered to be old enough to make their own decisions about who they have sex with. 达到可以自主决定与谁发生性行为年龄的") they sleep with.

***
<h2 id="3">Briefing</h2>

***
<h3 id="3.1">Emmanuel Macron on Europe’s fragile place in a hostile world</h3>
WHEN EMMANUEL MACRON stepped from his presidential plane onto the red carpet at the airport in Shanghai on November 4th, two flags were fluttering in the warm air: one Chinese, the other the French tricolore. This was only to be expected for a visiting French president, whom President Xi Jinping treated to two [`banquets`](   "A banquet is a grand formal dinner. 正式宴会")<sup>正式宴会</sup> and a private dinner, in two different cities. Yet the absence of a European Union flag was a small visual reminder of the scale of the diplomatic challenge Mr Macron has set himself. For the French president went to China this week not just to speak for France, but for Europe. 

Mr Macron’s message was carefully [`calibrated`](   "If you calibrate an instrument or tool, you mark or adjust it so that you can use it to measure something accurately. 校准")<sup>校准</sup>. When Germany’s `Chancellor`<sup>总理</sup> Angela Merkel jetted off to China in September, she took with her a large [`delegation`](  "A delegation is a group of people who have been sent somewhere to have talks with other people on behalf of a larger group of people. 代表团")<sup>代表团</sup> of German chief executives. Mr Macron also flew French businessmen with him to China, and pushed hard for better access to Chinese markets for French stuff. To make the point, Mr Macron and Mr Xi tasted high-end Bordeaux and morsels of French beef together at the Shanghai trade fair. 

Yet the French president also went “to show that Europe has a unified face”. He brought with him an Irish European commissioner and a German minister, and included a clutch of German business bosses in the French delegation. In a speech on trade, Mr Macron framed the stakes as European, and scarcely mentioned la France. With China ready to exploit the slightest European division, Mr Macron hoped to show that a common, strategic, `pan-European`<sup>泛欧洲的</sup> policy might be possible. 

Shortly before his China trip, Mr Macron laid out this vision of a more “strategic” and “sovereign” Europe in a candid interview with The Economist. The conversation took place late in the evening on October 21st at the Elysée Palace in the president’s gilt-decorated office, the salon doré, where Charles de Gaulle used to work. In the interview, Mr Macron is as `bleak`<sup>沮丧的</sup> about the [`perils`](  "Perils are great dangers. 极大危险")<sup>极大危险</sup> facing the continent as he is radical about his `prescriptions`<sup>方案</sup>. 

“Look at what is happening in the world. Things that were unthinkable five years ago,” the French president declares. “To be wearing ourselves out over Brexit, to have Europe finding it so difficult to move forward, to have an American ally turning its back on us so quickly on strategic issues; nobody would have believed this possible.” Europe is on “the edge of a [`precipice`](   "If you say that someone is on the edge of a precipice, you mean that they are in a dangerous situation in which they are extremely close to disaster or failure. 险境; 危局")<sup>险境</sup>”, he says. “If we don’t wake up…there’s a considerable risk that in the long run we will disappear geopolitically, or at least that we will no longer be in control of our destiny. I believe that very deeply.” 

Since the 1990s, says Mr Macron, the European Union has progressively lost its political purpose. Its focus on market expansion and regulation, `underpinned`<sup>巩固</sup> by the American defence guarantee, provided an illusion of `eternal`<sup>永恒的</sup> stability. America’s gradual `retreat`<sup>撤退</sup> from Europe and the Middle East, which he dates to before the election of President Donald Trump, combined with its new protectionism, has exposed Europe’s vulnerability. 

“But we find ourselves for the first time with an American president who doesn’t share our idea of the European project,” Mr Macron notes, and whose attitude to the risk of jihadist prisoners on the loose in Syria is that they will “be escaping to Europe”. When Mr Trump tells the French president that “it’s your neighbourhood, not mine”, says Mr Macron, what he is really saying is: “Wake up!” With America turning its back, China rising, and authoritarian leaders on the EU’s doorstep, the result is “the exceptional `fragility`<sup>脆弱</sup> of Europe”, Mr Macron concludes, “which, if it can’t think of itself as a global power, will disappear.” 

“What we are currently experiencing,” he declares, with reference to the withdrawal of troops from Syria, is “the brain-death of NATO”. Pressed to explain, he argues: “You have no co-ordination [`whatsoever`](   "You use whatsoever after a noun group in order to emphasize a negative statement. 任何 (用于名词词组之后，强调否定陈述)")<sup>无论</sup> of strategic decision-making between the United States and its NATO allies. None. You have an `unco-ordinated`<sup>不协调的</sup> aggressive action by another NATO ally, Turkey, in an area where our interests are `at stake`<sup>处于危险中</sup>.” Did this mean that Article Five—the idea that if one NATO member were attacked the others would come to its aid, which underpins the alliance’s [`deterrence`](    "Deterrence is the prevention of something, especially war or crime, by having something such as weapons or punishment to use as a threat. 威慑")<sup>威慑</sup>—is still functional? “I don’t know,” he replies. “But what will Article Five mean tomorrow?” 

The underlying message is `brutal`<sup>残忍的</sup>: Europe has to stop judging these times a historical anomaly, start asking whether NATO is fit for purpose, and get its act together. This is a view broadly shared by his countrymen (see chart 1). “Even if we don’t want to hear it,” he says, “we cannot in all responsibility fail to draw the conclusions, or at least begin to think about them.” 

Mr Macron, a philosophy graduate as well as a former investment banker, is considered to be more of a thinker than most world leaders. He tries to read for an hour or two each day. In Shanghai he slipped off for a private lunch with Chinese artists to `muse`<sup>沉思</sup> about freedom. Mr Macron’s deliberations have led him to conclude that what is needed is “European sovereignty”: the collective ability to defend Europe’s interests—over security, privacy, artificial intelligence, data, the environment, industry, trade and so forth—in a strategic way. 

During his interview, Mr Macron [`roams`](  "If you roam an area or roam around it, you wander or travel around it without having a particular purpose. 闲逛; 漫游")<sup>漫步</sup> across topics, moving from a psychological portrait of Vladimir Putin one moment to the perils of a low-interest-rate economy the next. Europe faces an almost-existential moment, he argues, as the world shifts from a global order based on rules to one determined by muscular power politics. Yet he does not seem to be `daunted`<sup>胆怯的</sup>. He has a more engaging manner than his [`aloof`]( "Someone who is aloof is not very friendly and does not like to spend time with other people. 冷淡的")<sup>冷淡的</sup> public persona, which has led to a reputation for `haughtiness`<sup>傲慢</sup>, would suggest. Moments such as when Mr Macron told off a teenager for not calling him “Monsieur” in 2018, or when he said in 2017 that railway stations were places where “one crosses people who succeed, and people who are nothing”, have added to this impression that he is arrogant and [`removed`](  "If you say that an idea or situation is far removed from something, you mean that it is very different from it. 非常不同的"). And, indeed, the bleakness of Mr Macron’s analysis is matched by an uncanny—and no doubt excessive—confidence in his own ability to do something about it. 

But can he? French Fifth-Republic presidents are fond of laying out sweeping visions of the world that appeal to the country’s grandeur. Over the years, when French leaders have called for a Europe puissance (European power), this has often sounded [`suspiciously`]( "If you say that one thing looks or sounds suspiciously like another thing, you mean that it probably is that thing, or something very similar to it, although it may be intended to seem different. 非常 (像)") like code for French `hegemonic`<sup>霸权的</sup> ambitions. Such efforts in the past have been dismissed in London or Washington as quaint, or dangerously undermining of NATO, or both. In 2003 during the Iraq war, when France, Germany, Belgium and Luxembourg held talks on such matters, their get-together was dismissed as a second-rate “chocolate summit”. 

Yet there are new reasons to try to understand the thinking in Paris. Mr Macron is an energetic diplomat, keen to shape the events he sees unfolding. For at least the next year, and possibly beyond, he will be the only ambitious leader of a liberal democracy who is also at the head of a nuclear power, with a military presence that reaches from Europe to the Pacific, a UN Security Council seat, strong executive powers and a robust parliamentary majority. Compare this with the agonies of Brexit Britain, Germany’s [`dysfunctional`]( "Dysfunctional is used to describe relationships or behaviour which are different from what is considered to be normal. (关系或行为)异常的")<sup>机能失调的</sup> coalition and [`faltering`](  "A faltering attempt, effort, or movement is uncertain because the person doing it is nervous or weak, or does not really know what to do. (尝试、努力、行动等)犹豫的; 蹒跚的")<sup>蹒跚的</sup> economy, or the political `paralysis`<sup>无力</sup> of Italy and Spain. 

The result could be that leadership in Europe could pivot to France. By default as well as inclination, says Benjamin Haddad of the Atlantic Council in Washington, DC, Mr Macron is well placed to become Europe’s new diplomatic leader. 

For sure, Mr Macron cannot compete with Mrs Merkel on experience. But, midway through his term, the 41-year-old French president has built up ties to many world leaders. Since taking office, Mr Macron has made 101 trips to over 50 different countries, including places (from Nigeria to India) outside France’s traditional sphere. His China trip was his second there as president. On his watch, Mr Trump has been four times to France. Even Mr Macron’s domestic standing has started to recover, having taken a bruising soon after coming into office. After the searing social unrest led by the gilets jaunes (yellow jackets) a year ago, his approval rating—still very low, at 34%—is at least back up to where it was before the protests began. (Mr Trump’s is at 41% and over the past three years has not slipped below 36%.) 

Moreover, despite some clumsy footwork, Mr Macron has manoeuvred a number of France-friendly appointees into top EU jobs. They include Ursula von der Leyen, the new head of the European Commission; Charles Michel, the incoming European Council president; and Christine Lagarde, who now runs the ECB. And France has secured a hefty new commission portfolio spanning the single market, industrial policy, digital, defence and space—although he failed to secure Sylvie Goulard for the job, after she became the first French candidate to be rejected by MEPs in Brussels for being unfit to take office. 

Some of the language in Europe has started to shift in Mr Macron’s direction, at least. Mrs von der Leyen says she wants to run a “geopolitical” commission. Mark Rutte, the Dutch prime minister, has argued that “the EU needs a reality check; power is not a dirty word.” Mrs Merkel has told Europeans that, when it comes to their collective security, “the times when we could rely on others are over.” 

By the third day of his trip, French officials were pleased that a deal to protect regional European food labels—such as Roquefort blue cheese—in China, and vice versa, had been signed and that China seemed supportive on climate change. But they were also `candid`<sup>直言不讳的</sup> about how difficult it all is. 

China is a good test of whether Mr Macron can get Europe to speak as one voice, and whether Europe wants that voice to be Mr Macron’s. He has been outspoken about “China’s real diplomatic genius for playing on our divisions and weakening us”. He says he wants fellow Europeans to be less naive; he has argued it was “stupid” to sell essential infrastructure in southern Europe to the Chinese. He also wants the EU to insist on [`reciprocity`]( "Reciprocity is the exchange of something between people or groups of people when each person or group gives or allows something to the other. 互惠")<sup>互惠</sup> in trade and market access, and to guard against technology transfer. To back this up with a show of limited muscle, France sails at least twice a year through the South China Sea. 

The need for a credible common policy sounds sensible. Trying to forge one is a lot more difficult. Take the construction in Europe of 5G telecoms networks. “You have to grasp the sensitivity of what we’re talking about,” Mr Macron argues, the pitch of his voice rising. Europe, he `laments`<sup>感到遗憾</sup>, has focused its technology policy almost exclusively on market issues, such as roaming or competition, at the expense of strategic thinking. He thinks Europeans should be worried that they cannot guarantee that sensitive technology will be neither Chinese nor American. France is taking a cautious approach to screening investment in its 5G network roll-out. Despite a warning from the head of its own foreign-intelligence service, Germany has taken a less restrictive approach. 

In some matters, the EU may become more willing to act in what Mr Macron considers to be a strategic fashion. The new European Commission could be more `sympathetic`<sup>同意的</sup> to French desires to apply a global measure of market power to evaluate industrial mergers, which would enable pan-European champions to `emerge`<sup>兴起</sup>. The idea of a sales tax on tech firms, which France introduced in July, prompting Mr Trump to tweet angrily about “Macron’s foolishness”, is gaining ground in other countries. France has persuaded Germany to consider the idea of a European carbon border tax. 

The really tough part of Mr Macron’s vision, however, would involve a step change for Europe that is extremely difficult to see happening in a hurry. It would mean converting a bloc that uses the heft of its market to apply rules and standards—and deploys its defence capability primarily for the purposes of crisis management—into one that can project power and act collectively as a military force. “It is very tough,” Mr Macron concedes, acknowledging that “Europe hasn’t demonstrated its credibility yet.” But, he insists, “we’re making progress” and that “attitudes are changing.” 

The French president cites his pet project, the European Intervention Initiative, a coalition of countries (including Britain), ready to act together in crises, as well as the German-favoured EU defence co-operation agreement, known as PESCO. He also points to the hefty new €13bn ($14bn) European Defence Fund to finance research and equipment, and a Franco-German agreement for a joint future-generation tank and fighter plane. All of these, Mr Macron insists, are “designed to be complementary to NATO”. France knows full well from its counter-terrorism operations in the Sahel the depth of its reliance on America. 

But is Europe really ready to undertake such a transformation? “I’ve been hearing about European strategic autonomy for so long,” sighs Philip Gordon of the Council on Foreign Relations, and formerly an adviser to Barack Obama. Part of the problem is defence spending (see chart 2). If Europe’s NATO members are to meet their commitment to spend 2% of GDP on defence by 2024, this would mean spending an extra $102bn—some 40% more than they currently do. 

Tougher still is the need for a change of mindset. Germany remains a defender of [`the status quo`](    "Remember that your enterprise is in the state it is in precisely because of the status quo. "). This is the case on budgetary orthodoxy, which Mr Macron has failed to influence, as well as the post-cold-war order, where he detects some change. Germany is “very unambitious on the world scene, and so a very difficult partner for France,” says Claudia Major, of the German Institute for International and Security Affairs, a think-tank. “We constantly feel that [the French] want something from us, and that this is so annoying.” 

Germany is not alone. In other European capitals there is unease at the prospect of French leadership, and a feeling that Mr Macron is all for co-operation, as long as it is on French terms. Such `misgivings`<sup>疑虑</sup> were exposed by his recent veto over the start of accession talks with North Macedonia and Albania. Fellow Europeans `roundly`<sup>严厉地</sup> condemned this as exactly the sort of failure of geostrategic thinking that Mr Macron accuses others of. 

This view `infuriates`<sup>激怒</sup> the president. Enlargement without reform of the EU and of its accession rules, he says, is “absurd”. It prevents Europe from acting as a more integrated bloc. “Half” of the other EU countries agree with him on Albania, he claims, but hide behind France. And he rejects the idea that his veto leaves them vulnerable to rival powers, pointing to growing Russian and Chinese influence in Serbia, which is an accession candidate. If Europe reformed first, says Mr Macron, he would be “ready to open negotiations”. 

Or consider Mr Macron’s Russia policy. He has long argued that rogue powers are more dangerous when isolated. To this end, he has hosted Vladimir Putin at both Versailles, near Paris, and Brégançon, on the Mediterranean. But his call for a “rapprochement” with Russia, in order to keep it out of China’s arms, has alarmed Poland and the Baltics. “My idea is not in the least naive,” argues Mr Macron. He insists that any movement would be conditional on respect for the Minsk peace accords in Ukraine. He has not called for sanctions to be lifted. And he sees this as a long-term strategy, that “might take ten years”. Mr Macron’s belief is that, eventually, Europe will need to try to find common ground with its near neighbour. Not doing so would be “a huge mistake”. 

The rest of the world is still not quite sure what to make of the French president. There is a [`dizzying`](    "You can use dizzying to emphasize that something impresses you, though it makes you a bit confused or unsteady. 令人晕眩的")<sup>令人晕眩的</sup> amount of diplomatic activity now coming out of Paris. This has already led to false hopes, such as the prospect of a Macron-brokered meeting between the Iranians and Americans. Promises of four-way talks between Russia, Ukraine, France and Germany this autumn have yet to materialise. Not unlike Mr Macron’s global `showmanship`<sup>表演技巧</sup> and his `theatrical`<sup>夸张的</sup> handshakes with other world leaders, his foreign policy is generating both interest and [`disquiet`]( "Disquiet is a feeling of worry or anxiety. 忧虑不安")<sup>不安</sup> in almost equal measure. 

It may be that despite all this energetic effort, Mr Macron’s ambitions for “European sovereignty” are frustrated from within by a combination of European divisions, Brexit, German inertia and lingering suspicions of the French. Or that his `imperious`<sup>专横的</sup> behaviour curtails his influence. “Macron has everything in place to build a French-focused Europe,” says Ulrich Speck, of the German Marshall Fund. “Strategically he’s right about so much, but operationally he doesn’t work enough with other partners.” Nor is it even clear that Europe needs to fill its leadership gap. 

Yet, as Mr Macron displayed in China this week, he will seize the mantle if he can. The French president may `<u>overpromise and underdeliver</u>`. But he is `unfazed`<sup>不苦恼的</sup> by those who accuse him of being pushy or difficult, judging this to be the inevitable result of trying to upend the rules. “I’m trying to understand the world as it is, I’m not lecturing anyone. I may be wrong,” he insists, in a tone that hints he does not believe it for a second. The leader who describes such a bleak outlook for Europe is going to try to do something about it, whether others like it or not. As one of his advisers puts it, Mr Macron “is a realist, and a `pragmatist`<sup>实用主义者</sup>, and he exposes himself by taking risks. But that’s how he is. That’s how he became president.”

Dig deeper 

Leader (November 7th): “A continent in peril”Transcript: Emmanuel Macron in his own words The Intelligence podcast: “He talked about Europe in almost apocalyptic terms”— Macron's interview 

***
<h2 id="4">The world this week</h2>

***
<h3 id="4.1">Business this week</h3>
Masayoshi Son, the chief executive of SoftBank, acknowledged that he made a mistake by betting on WeWork, as his group revealed a $4.6bn write-down of its investment in the office-rental startup. Overall, SoftBank reported a quarterly net loss of ¥700bn ($6.4bn)—“red ink of the deepest red”, said an unusually `contrite`<sup>悔悟的</sup> Mr Son. The Japanese `conglomerate`<sup>集团</sup> had to rescue WeWork after it abandoned an IPO amid questions about its valuation and a shortage of cash. Mr Son is now taking steps to [`beef up`](  "If you beef up something, you increase, strengthen, or improve it. 加强")<sup>加强</sup> oversight of SoftBank’s many interests, such as demanding at least one seat on the board of any firm it sinks money into. See article. 

Part of SoftBank’s loss was also connected to its investment in Uber. The ride-hailing company reported another quarterly loss, of $1.2bn, and said it did not expect to turn an annual profit until 2021. Its share price tumbled to another record low, in part because of expectations that Uber’s shares will flood the market now that investors who were locked in to holding them after the company’s IPO in May are free to sell. 

The Federal Communications Commission formally approved the long-delayed merger of Sprint, which is owned by SoftBank, and T-Mobile, Deutsche Telekom’s American subsidiary. A lawsuit brought by a coalition of states attempting to block the deal on antitrust grounds is due to be heard in court next month. 

HP, one of the world’s biggest makers of personal computers and printers, confirmed that it had received a “proposal” from Xerox, a smaller company focused on office photocopiers, to combine their businesses. A deal would reportedly be valued at around $30bn. 

America and China were making progress in trade negotiations, with each considering a reduction in tariffs. The conclusion of “phase one” of a trade truce is uncertain because of civil unrest in Chile, which has cancelled the APEC meeting where the deal was to be signed. Meanwhile, the World Trade Organisation gave China official approval for the first time to impose tariffs on America, in a dispute over steel pre-dating their current spat. See article. 

Steve Easterbrook was sacked by McDonald’s as its chief executive for having a romance with an employee. Although the relationship was consensual, McDonald’s said it “violated company policy and demonstrated poor judgment”. Mr Easterbrook has been credited with revitalising the fast-food chain by spicing up its menu. Its share price has doubled since March 2015, when he became CEO. See article. 

International Airlines Group, the parent company of several carriers, including British Airways and Iberia, agreed to buy Air Europa, a smaller Spanish rival to Iberia. The deal will increase IAG’s share of the Europe-to-Latin America market from roughly a fifth to a quarter. Michael O’Leary, the boss of Ryanair, Europe’s biggest low-cost airline, was not happy. He claims the takeover will hurt competition and wants regulators to force IAG to sell off some assets. 

Concerns about data privacy were raised following the announcement that Google is to buy Fitbit, a wearable device that tracks a user’s exercise and healthy habits. Google and Fitbit stressed that the $2.1bn deal would not compromise their commitment to transparency on data use and that information would not be sold on to third parties. As well as recording a person’s heart rate, running pace, calorie burn and so on, Fitbit also retains personal information and location details. 

Saudi Aramco at last confirmed that it is to launch an IPO, the details of which will be provided in a [`prospectus`](  "A prospectus is a detailed document produced by a company, college, or school, which gives details about it. (公司或学校的) 介绍说明文件")<sup>内容说明书</sup> scheduled to be published on November 9th. The state-owned Saudi oil firm will sell shares on the Tadawul stock exchange in Riyadh. In an effort to widen its appeal domestically, small investors will receive bonus shares if they keep the stock until at least 180 days after the flotation. 

Malaysia’s prime minister, Mahathir Mohamad, said he was prepared to take Goldman Sachs to court if it did not increase its offer of compensation for its role in the sprawling 1MDB-fund scandal. Mr Mahathir said recently that he had rejected an offer of $2bn from the bank. 

One of the pioneers of America’s `shale-gas`<sup>页岩气</sup> revolution, Chesapeake Energy, warned in a filing that it was in danger of failing as a “going concern” if cheap gas prices persist. The company has amassed almost $10bn in debt, five times its market value, amid a glut in American oil and gas output, which has driven prices down. 

The British government banned fracking in England, after an official report found that it was not possible to predict when and where earth tremors caused by the process for extracting shale gas might occur. Environmentalists were delighted. Others accused the government of pulling a pre-election `stunt`<sup>噱头</sup>. See article. 

***
<h3 id="4.2">Politics this week</h3>
As the British general election campaign officially got under way a stream of MPs announced they would not stand again. So far over 70 have stepped down, more than twice the number who chose not to face the electorate in 2017. More than 60 of those supported Remain, and most represented constituencies that voted for Brexit. The Conservatives’ campaign got off to a bad start, with the `resignation`<sup>辞职</sup> of a cabinet minister. Polls still give them a double-digit lead over Labour. See article. 

John Bercow stood down as Speaker of Britain’s House of Commons after ten years in the chair. Mr Bercow was known for crying “orderrrr!” and breaking parliamentary conventions. His replacement, Sir Lindsay Hoyle, has hinted at a return to convention and [`decorum`](  "Decorum is behaviour that people consider to be correct, polite, and respectable. 礼貌得体")<sup>礼貌</sup>, promising that he will wear the Speaker’s wig “on traditional days”. See article. 

In an attempt to show voters that the government is prepared to toughen up immigration policy, France’s prime minister, Édouard Philippe, announced plans to clear out some migrant tent-camps, as well as to impose quotas for migrant workers and limit migrant access to non-urgent health care. 

A much-hyped Brazilian `auction`<sup>拍卖</sup> of rights to drill for offshore oil was a disappointment. Two of the four deepwater deposits got no bids at all. Observers blamed the high fees set by the government, and uncertainty about the future of both Brazil’s policies and global oil demand. 

Colombia’s defence minister said he would resign amid accusations that the army has committed `atrocities`<sup>暴行</sup>. One senator accused the minister of covering up the alleged bombing of a guerrilla camp in which children were killed. 

A drug gang murdered nine members of a Mormon family in Sonora, a state in northern Mexico. Six children and three women died, perhaps because the killers mistook them for rivals. The LeBaron family broke away from the mainstream Mormon church and settled in Mexico in the early 20th century. The victims were American citizens. 

Iran took another step away from the nuclear deal it signed in 2015 by injecting gas into centrifuges at its Fordow facility. The devices could produce enriched uranium to be used for nuclear energy or, if highly enriched, a bomb. Iran said it would reverse the move if the deal’s other signatories—Britain, China, France, Germany and Russia—provide economic relief. See article. 

Anti-government protests continued in Iraq and Lebanon. Demonstrators in both countries are seeking big changes to political systems dominated by an old elite and [`riddled`]( "If something is riddled with undesirable qualities or features, it is full of them. 充满 (不好的特质或特征) 的")<sup>充斥</sup> with corruption. In Iraq the authorities have responded with violence. More than 260 people have been killed since the unrest began last month. Adel Abdul-Mahdi, the prime minister, has said he is willing to resign if a replacement is found. 

The government of Yemen reached a power-sharing deal with southern separatists. The two are meant to be on the same side in a civil war that pits the Saudi-backed government against Houthi rebels, but they have been fighting each other recently. Saudi Arabia, which hosted the talks, said it hoped the deal would lead to a broader agreement ending the war. 

America’s Justice Department charged two former employees of Twitter with supplying personal information on dissidents to Saudi Arabia. 

Jihadists linked to Islamic State killed more than 50 soldiers in Mali in an attack on an army base, a month after a similar `assault`<sup>袭击</sup> in which more than 40 soldiers were killed. The two attacks are among the worst since 2013, when French forces pushed jihadists out of the towns in the north of Mali. 

The International Criminal Court sentenced a former rebel chief in the Democratic Republic of Congo to 30 years in prison for war crimes. Bosco Ntaganda was known as “The Terminator”. His army forcibly recruited children and committed mass rape. His sentence was the longest yet imposed by the court. 

In the 22nd consecutive weekend of unrest in Hong Kong, protesters attacked the office building of Xinhua, a news agency owned by the Chinese government. A Chinese newspaper, Global Times, accused them of deliberately provoking the mainland’s authorities. Xi Jinping met Hong Kong’s embattled chief executive, Carrie Lam, in Shanghai and reiterated his support for her. See article. 

Deadly smog `engulfed`<sup>吞没</sup> much of northern India, thanks in part to farmers burning stubble and to [`revellers`](   "Revellers are people who are enjoying themselves in a noisy way, often while they are drunk. 纵酒狂欢者")<sup>纵酒狂欢者</sup> letting off `firecrackers`<sup>鞭炮</sup> to celebrate Diwali, a Hindu holiday. The government of Delhi closed all the city’s schools and instituted sweeping measures to limit traffic, to little `avail`<sup>效用</sup>. 

An attack on a checkpoint in southern Thailand killed 15 people; it was the worst in the region for years. The attackers were `militants`<sup>激进分子</sup> fighting what they see as the [`oppression`](  "Oppression is the cruel or unfair treatment of a group of people. 压迫")<sup>镇压</sup> of `ethnic`<sup>种族的</sup> Malays in Thailand. 

Rodrigo Duterte, the president of the Philippines, put the vice-president, Leni Robredo, in charge of his campaign against drug dealers, during which thousands of suspects have been summarily shot dead. The president and vice-president are elected separately in the Philippines, and Ms Robredo is a [`staunch`]( "A staunch supporter or believer is very loyal to a person, organization, or set of beliefs, and supports them strongly. 坚定的")<sup>坚定的</sup> critic of Mr Duterte. 

America formally notified the UN of its intention to withdraw from the Paris agreement to combat climate change, through which countries have pledged (with varying degrees of sincerity) to cut greenhouse-gas emissions. The Trump administration argues that the accord would hurt American businesses. The decision can be undone if a Democrat wins the presidential election. 

Elizabeth Warren, one of the leading candidates to be the Democratic presidential candidate, unveiled details of her ambitious health-care plan. Ms Warren wants to spend $20.5trn over a decade to transform America’s private market for health insurance into a government-run programme. To raise this extraordinary sum, she would `hike`<sup>提高</sup> taxes, especially on companies and the rich. See article. 

Beto O’Rourke dropped out of the Democratic race. Once the darling of the left, Mr O’Rourke struggled to make an impact in a crowded field. 

The Democrats did well in a smattering of elections, winning the governor’s race in Kentucky and taking control of the state legislature in Virginia for the first time in 20 years. The Republicans held on to the governor’s mansion in deep-red Mississippi. See article. 

***
<h2 id="5">Business</h2>

***
<h3 id="5.1">A postcard from Hong Kong</h3>
TO A VISITOR from messy Mumbai, on the surface Hong Kong seems, despite months of anti-government protests, in order. Busy shops, clean streets, trains that run on time—or at all. CLP, the 118-year-old electric utility, has just moved from its old headquarters in Kowloon to a new one over a shopping mall (inevitably). Both digs are (inevitably) to be redeveloped. Business as usual, then? 

Not quite. Two French bakeries that [`popped up`]( "If someone or something pops up, they appear in a place or situation unexpectedly. 突然出现")<sup>突然出现</sup> after your correspondent left in 2011, to ride Hong Kong’s surge as Europe flailed, have shut. The owners felt the tide had turned. A recent graduate from Canada, who grew up in the territory, notes how hard it is to get a job. Hong Kong is in recession (see chart). Hiring has slowed, particularly by confused multinationals. People, he says, are leaving. Millennials with work offers elsewhere are not returning. It is, many reckon, worse than the SARS epidemic in 2003. Back then Hong Kongers were united. Now they seem deeply divided. Arguments `flare up`<sup>突然发怒</sup> far from the `riots`<sup>暴乱</sup>. 

A bartender in Wanchai, a busy commercial district, says business is slow. Watering holes lose money (except during events that draw out the fearless, such as televised matches during the recent Rugby World Cup). Protests, or the expectation of them, can scotch anything involving crowds—cultural dos, parties—that once evinced Hong Kong’s vitality. People stay at home. Cops in `riot-gear`<sup>防暴装备</sup> guard MTR stations. The public-transport company’s share price is down by 18% since July. 

The [`upheaval`](   "An upheaval is a big change which causes a lot of trouble, confusion, and worry. 动乱")<sup>动乱</sup> appears to have narrowed Hong Kong’s intellectual bandwidth, too. A decade ago business and finance types would talk about all of Asia. Now they speak of little besides Hong Kong and mainland China. This is not wholly irrational. At one investment bank half of [`equity`](    "In finance, your equity is the sum of your assets, for example the value of your house, once your debts have been subtracted from it. 资产净值")<sup>资产净值</sup> trading still involves American shares, but one-third is now China—more than Japan, South Korea, Australia, Taiwan and India combined. 

A Hong Kong [`tycoon`]( "A tycoon is a person who is successful in business and so has become rich and powerful. (工商界的) 大亨")<sup>巨头</sup> of Indian `descent`<sup>血统</sup> says that if he were young, he might move back to his ancestral land. His children are now at the age (early 30s) when in years past the Sassoons, an Asian trading dynasty, would dispatch them to `entrepots`<sup>贸易中心</sup> to advance the family concern. They are choosing to stay put—because India, the obvious destination, has disappointed too much. Hong Kong’s disappointments have not made it unlivable. The Hang Seng stockmarket index swooned over the summer, but has since recovered some of the decline. Hope of a return to normal lingers on. For now.

***
<h3 id="5.2">A three-way battle over control of PG&E</h3>
LOCAL UTILITIES’ predictable businesses and steady dividends have earned them the `moniker`<sup>绰号</sup> “widow-and-orphan shares”. Not in California. Pacific Gas & Electric Company (PG&E), its biggest electric utility, declared bankruptcy in January, citing $30bn of potential `liabilities`<sup>债务</sup> arising from its role in causing deadly wildfires. Its share price is down by nearly 90% since 2017. It recently shut off power to millions of Californians to prevent its installations from sparking new blazes. Customers and politicians fumed. Meanwhile, a battle for control of the firm rages on. 

PG&E’s management is backed by big funds (notably Abrams, Redwood and Knighthead) that hold just over half its shares. Its restructuring plan favours current shareholders. It proposes raising both new debt and equity. A rival bid by `bondholders`<sup>公司债所有者</sup> (among them big asset managers such as Elliott, Apollo and PIMCO) would virtually wipe out current equity. This scheme appeals to fire victims, for it offers them more compensation than the management’s plan. 

Bondholders appeared to have the upper hand. Then the politicians waded in. On November 4th the mayors of Oakland, San Jose and other `municipalities`<sup>市民</sup> said they want to buy PG&E and turn it into a co-operative. They are pushing Gavin Newsom, California’s governor, and state regulators to back their proposal. If approved, it would enable PG&E to take advantage of rules which `exempt`<sup>免除</sup> Californian `municipal`<sup>市政的</sup> utilities, such as those in Los Angeles and Sacramento, from federal tax, allow them to set their own tariffs and also let them tap cheaper capital than is available to private utilities. If PG&E is not restructured by a deadline of June 30th, Mr Newsom, who is critical of the management, has threatened a state takeover. 

Meanwhile, PG&E will continue to [`teeter`](    "Teeter is used in expressions such as teeter on the brink and teeter on the edge to emphasize that something seems to be in a very unstable situation or position. 岌岌可危")<sup>岌岌可危</sup>. After years of underinvestment its grid needs a massive upgrade. Stephen Byrd of Morgan Stanley, a bank, calculates that burying its transmission and distribution lines in the most vulnerable areas underground to reduce fire risk would cost $100bn. Lawrence Makovich of IHS Markit, a consultancy, points out that the utility is `saddled`<sup>承受</sup> with another cost. A state law passed last year requires that half of electricity come from renewables by 2025, up from about a third in 2017. So like other utilities, PG&E has signed some expensive contracts for clean energy. Walking away from those which charge a premium over dirtier power could save it $1.4bn a year as part of the restructuring, estimates Moody’s, a rating agency—but California’s hyper-green politicians and activists would probably block such a move. 

Then there is California’s “inverse condemnation”: an [`idiosyncratic`](    "If you describe someone's actions or characteristics as idiosyncratic, you mean that they are somewhat unusual. 怪异的; 另类的")<sup>特殊的</sup> state law holds utilities liable for damage caused by their equipment during fires even if they followed safety rules and were not negligent. Reckless expansion of housing into `fire-prone`<sup>容易引发火灾的</sup> areas has put nearly $110bn in property at high risk in California. Climate change is only making dry weather drier and wildfires fiercer. By creating untold potential liabilities the statute has made utilities virtually uninsurable. 

Last July the state created a $21bn wildfire-insurance fund, to be financed equally by private utilities and customers. Helpfully, the scheme pools risk. But it is too small. It limits the pool to California, notes Joseph Scalise of Bain, a consultancy. States in which utilities have access to insurers and reinsurers can spread risk globally. 

The [`hapless`](    "A hapless person is unlucky. 不幸的")<sup>倒霉的</sup> utility could yet be hit with huge fire-related expenses this dry season, which ends in December. These could wipe out its remaining equity. Bondholders may then back out of promised capital injections. Government may be left on the hook. Whoever wins the battle for control of PG&E, ordinary Californians will pay—through taxes or higher electricity bills.

***
<h3 id="5.3">Hard times for SoftBank</h3>
COMPANIES AND financial vehicles that get into trouble often have common characteristics: high debts, accounting that is hard to understand, `opaque`<sup>不透明的</sup> assets that are hard to value and managers who have a hard time facing reality. That more or less fits the description of SoftBank, a giant Japanese telecoms and technology conglomerate founded and run by Masayoshi Son, which on November 6th announced a $6bn loss after `bailing out`<sup>放弃</sup> WeWork, a loss-making property firm. Speaking in Tokyo, Mr Son put on a defiant display and insisted that SoftBank has a valuable portfolio of tech assets that the outside world does not appreciate. But soon enough, like most troubled businesses, SoftBank will have to confront its underlying weakness: a lack of cashflow to back up all of the hype. It may have to shrink and could end up being broken up. 

Mr Son has cultivated an [`eccentric`]( "If you say that someone is eccentric, you mean that they behave in a strange way, and have habits or opinions that are different from those of most people. 古怪的; 异乎寻常的")<sup>古怪的</sup> persona by making dramatic predictions about how technology will change the world and insisting his firm will last 300 years. But SoftBank is no curiosity. After a long expansion binge it is the world’s fifth-most-indebted non-financial firm, with gross consolidated debts of $166bn (after [`deducting`]( "When you deduct an amount from a total, you subtract it from the total. 扣除")<sup>扣除</sup> cash the net figure is $129bn). These are owed to banks and investors around the world and to Japanese households. SoftBank controls important companies, including Sprint, an American telecoms `outfit`<sup>全套装备</sup>, and Arm, a British tech firm that is a vital cog in the semiconductor industry. Saudi Arabia has invested a pile of public money in Mr Son’s tech-investment arm, known as the Vision Fund. This vehicle has gone on an acquisition [`spree`]( "If you spend a period of time doing something in an excessive way, you can say that you are going on a particular kind of spree. 放纵")<sup>放纵</sup>, buying stakes in tech “unicorns”, several of which, including WeWork and Uber, a ride-hailing pioneer, have struggled of late. 

SoftBank is hard to understand because it is complex and because Mr Son’s explanation of its purpose often changes. It was founded in 1981 as a software distributor. In 2000 Mr Son was clever (or lucky) enough to invest in Alibaba, which became China’s most valuable company. Today SoftBank owns 24% of the e-commerce giant. Between 2006 and 2015 SoftBank [`morphed`](    "If one thing morphs into another thing, especially something very different, the first thing changes into the second. (尤指很大的、质的)改变; 变化")<sup>变化</sup> into a telecoms firm, buying first Vodafone’s Japanese arm and then Sprint. The most recent phase started in 2016, when Mr Son pivoted again, this time to investing in fashionable tech firms, and created the Vision Fund. The vehicle raises money from outside investors but is run by SoftBank and enters into various transactions with it. 

The results of all this can be [`baffling`](    "If something baffles you, you cannot understand it or explain it. 使困惑")<sup>令人困惑的</sup>. Is SoftBank a conglomerate or a venture-capital firm? Does Mr Son act in the interests of SoftBank’s shareholders or the Vision Fund’s investors? Analysts have struggled to find a coherent way to think about the firm, in one case, optimistically, describing it as tech’s Berkshire Hathaway. Shareholders have been lukewarm; SoftBank’s share price has gone nowhere for half a decade. Credit-rating agencies have been tolerant. Never mind that SoftBank’s consolidated accounts—which, roughly, tally the figures for all the assets that it controls—show it has burned up a cumulative $2bn in free cashflow over the past five years (see chart), even as it has booked a `gargantuan`<sup>巨大的</sup> $43bn of profits. 

The simplest way to view SoftBank is as an indebted holding company that owns a basket of assets, which are of mixed quality and often themselves indebted. These include Arm and stakes in Alibaba, the Vision Fund, Sprint and a Japanese telecoms operator. Mr Son argues that this holding company is financially strong. It is legally responsible for only a subset of the group’s net debt—some $41bn—with the rest owed by operating companies that could, in principle, default without bringing the whole house down. Meanwhile, the value of the stakes that the holding company owns are worth several times its debts, at $247bn. Half of this sits in Alibaba. In other words, if you `liquidated`<sup>清算</sup> everything, the holding company could easily pay off its obligations. What’s not to like? 

It is a seductive story, with three big flaws. First, the holding company still needs to receive enough income to pay its interest bills, in the form of dividends and fees paid to it by the firms and funds that it invests in. At the moment it does but the margin for error is tight. That feeds into the second worry, that the underlying performance of the firms that SoftBank invests in is weak, suggesting that their valuations may fall. WeWork has got lots of attention for its vast losses. But consider Arm, supposedly a jewel in the crown, which SoftBank bought for $31bn in 2016. In the most recent quarter its sales fell year-on-year and it made a loss—hardly a stellar performance. 

The third worry is that firms and funds that SoftBank invests in have too much debt. The Vision Fund has $40bn of debt-like securities with a hefty coupon. Even if SoftBank is not legally liable it may feel it has to bail out entities that it sponsors. This has just happened at WeWork, into which SoftBank has pumped another $6.5bn. Worries over borrowing levels are compounded by reports that SoftBank and Mr Son have put in place unusual debt structures. For example, SoftBank is reported to have loaned money to employees to invest in the Vision Fund. Mr Son himself is reported to have taken out personal loans secured against his 22% stake in SoftBank. Corporate structures that depend on layers upon layers of debt are inherently fragile. When they come under pressure the end result is often hard to predict. 

Mr Son’s instinct is to expand by launching a second $100bn-plus Vision Fund, from which SoftBank could presumably earn fees and to which it could perhaps sell assets, while remaining in control. But the WeWork [`fiasco`](  "If you describe an event or attempt to do something as a fiasco, you are emphasizing that it fails completely. 彻底的失败")<sup>惨败</sup> raises profound doubts about his judgment and SoftBank’s valuation process. 

From soft to soggy.Instead, the obvious path for SoftBank is a dose of [`austerity`](   "Austerity is a situation in which people's living standards are reduced because of economic difficulties. 经济紧缩")<sup>紧缩</sup>. That would mean stemming the losses at the tech firms owned by the Vision Fund and selling down more assets; SoftBank is already trying to merge Sprint with T-Mobile, a rival. It would also require Mr Son to `cede`<sup>放弃</sup> control. His vision of SoftBank involves one man being largely responsible for hundreds of billions of dollars—and for juggling no small number of competing objectives and interest groups. If you think that approach still makes sense you have to be soft in the head.

***
<h3 id="5.4">How to make your firm more diverse and inclusive</h3>
To: CEOcc: PASubject: A hard-headed guide to corporate diversity 

Dear David, 

YOU FACE pressure to “do something” about diversity in your company—not only from your wife and woke children. Corporate clients increasingly demand it in your supply chain. Regulators, who use a “stable” or “inclusive” culture as a proxy for low risk, are breathing down your neck. Governments like Britain’s, which now mandates pay-gap reporting, insist on making more of your sensitive data public. And employees, including former ones, can air their complaints on social media. 

Small wonder that 87% of your fellow bosses told consultants at PwC that diversity is a business priority. I’m sure you did, too. After all, you recently posted a job opening for a diversity manager. You were not alone; the number of such offers in Britain has doubled in the past year, say analysts at Glassdoor, a recruitment website. Since June 2017 more than 800 American CEOs have signed a pledge to “advance diversity and inclusion in the workplace”. 

That is where we are: lots of talk, plenty of initiatives, little change on the ground. Between 2015 and 2018 the share of female executives at large (mostly) American and British firms went from 12% to 14%; for `ethnic`<sup>种族的</sup> minorities it moved from 12% to 13%. The FTSE 100 has fewer female CEOs (six) than it does bosses who share your name (seven). In American companies with over 100 employees, the share of black men in management was 3.4% in 2017, half their share in the population as a whole—and virtually unchanged from 3% in 1985. White women make up 25% of executives and senior managers, compared with 60% for white men. Something is clearly [`amiss`](   "If you say that something is amiss, you mean there is something wrong. 出差错的"). 

In the past this letter would have gone straight to your legal department. Since the term “diversity” entered the corporate lexicon in the 1960s it has been code for avoiding lawsuits—especially in America, where companies have coughed up billions in fines for discrimination over the years. The financial sector still treats it mostly as a compliance issue. 

Now you are no doubt tempted to forward it to someone in HR, almost certainly a woman with an arts degree, a sound moral compass and too little power. Don’t. This is your problem. Without your leadership it is unlikely to be solved soon. 

Deep inside, you may be wondering if anything really needs solving. The short answer is: it does. With that in mind, you should ask yourself three things. 

First, why does diversity matter to your firm? Is your reputation in trouble, as it was for Uber, Nike, Lloyd’s of London and others scarred by #MeToo? Do you, like consumer giants such as P&G, hope that more diversity makes for better products? Are you concerned about attracting and retaining bright sparks? You would be in good company: 97% of executives [`fret`]( "If you fret about something, you worry about it. 担心")<sup>担心</sup> about increased competition for talent (according to Mercer’s HR consultants). 

Or are you hoping that diversity will boost the bottom line? To be perfectly honest, I have no idea if it does. It is hard to tell if diversity helps firms do well, or if successful firms are also more enlightened on other matters. But variety has been linked to innovation, productivity and, for example in diverse teams of surgeons, fewer mistakes. Lack of it breeds groupthink—which in turn can lead to disasters. The Bay of Pigs invasion and the Lehman Brothers collapse stemmed from narrow-mindedness. And employees who believe their firm cares about gender diversity are 40% more likely to be satisfied at work—and possibly more productive as a result. 

Once you have sorted out the why, consider where you want to get to. Some firms, like Facebook, Nike or P&G, say they wish to mirror their customer base. Others are keen not to recruit from an artificially thin talent pool. Goldman Sachs claims its new entry-level recruitment targets—50% female and, in America, 14% Hispanic and 11% black—are based on things like graduation rates. Clear goals make it easier to assess if you are on track. But make them attainable. Qantas’s goal of 40% of its pilot intake to be female by 2028 is as admirable as it looks unrealistic: today just one in 20 pilots worldwide is a woman. 

The third question concerns barriers that stop diverse talent from flourishing at your firm. Mapping how it flows through your organisation and where the blockages and leaks happen is a start. A McKinsey study of more than 300 companies identified the second step of the career ladder, from entry level to manager, as the “broken rung”: for every 100 men only 72 women (and just 68 Hispanic and 58 black ones) earned that critical early promotion. When Google was losing women in [`disproportionate`](   "Something that is disproportionate is surprising or unreasonable in amount or size, compared with something else. 不成比例的")<sup>不成比例的</sup> numbers it homed in on maternity as the principal cause; the technology giant increased maternity leave and support for mothers returning to work. 

Staff surveys can help, provided they are large and comprehensive enough. After its #MeToo moment, Lloyd’s, an insurance market, found that 45% of staff felt unable to raise concerns about improper conduct. Employees are now encouraged to speak up, including through a bullying-and-harassment helpline. A “culture dashboard” tracking progress on survey metrics will be published with the Lloyd’s annual report. 

Now you’ve got your diversity-and-inclusion priorities straight and diagnosed what needs fixing. Good. Before you order a rainbow float for a Pride parade and send staff on a micro-aggression avoidance course, here is what not to do. 

American firms spend billions a year on training. Half of large ones have unconscious-bias seminars. Most of these “D&I” programmes are a waste. Or worse: recent research from America shows that diversity statements can put off minorities, possibly because they perceive them as tokenism. Often, firms do D but forget I, which is about ensuring that the workforce is not just diverse, but thriving. Too many try to fix people instead of procedures. Training women to be more [`assertive`](   "Someone who is assertive states their needs and opinions clearly, so that people take notice. 坚定自信的")<sup>坚定自信的</sup> in asking for a promotion or pay rise is pointless; they are just as likely to ask for these but also likelier to be seen as pushy when they do. Ushering your managers onto the “Check Your Blind Spots bus”, currently touring America as part of the CEOs’ drive, is unlikely to do much. “Days of understanding”, popular in American offices, risk causing “diversity fatigue”. It is hard to beat bias out of individuals—easier to root it out of systems. 

Take Silicon Valley. Big Tech has [`splurged`]( "If you splurge on something, you spend a lot of money, usually on things that you do not need. 挥霍")<sup>挥霍</sup> on D&I to little effect. Representation of blacks and Hispanics has been flat (see chart). Girls Who Code, an industry-sponsored NGO, found that a quarter of young women who applied for internships at tech firms said they were asked inappropriate or biased questions. Others reported being flirted with or [`demeaned`](   "To demean someone or something means to make people have less respect for them. 降低…的身份; 贬低")<sup>贬低</sup>. It’s no use hiring diverse coders if the message then is: wear a `hoodie`<sup>连帽衫</sup> and pretend to be a guy, or this is no place for you. They will underperform—or flee, leaving you as undiverse as before. Firms that do not change their ways beyond recruitment see high attrition rates of diverse talent. A lack of diversity is a symptom of deeper problems that a few diversity hires won’t mend. 

At this point the how should be relatively clear. In a nutshell, it is all about creating a level playing field. When recruiting, software can mute biases by concealing giveaways to a candidate’s gender or ethnic identity. These include names but also less obvious hints like the sports they play. If only the usual suspects apply, look harder. Specialised recruitment drives, such as visiting “black” colleges or advertising in women’s forums, appear to work. The Bank of England no longer visits the Russell group of top universities, whose graduates apply in spades anyway, and focuses instead on less elite schools. BHP, an Anglo-Australian mining giant, broadened its search for female miners by recruiting from professions, such as nursing, with some similar skills. 

In an effort to find trainees from different backgrounds, British law firms are trying “contextual recruitment”. An applicant with Bs from a school where everyone got Cs may be more impressive than one with As from a place full of A* pupils. Rare, a recruitment firm, has developed software which screens candidates for disadvantage and gauges their outperformance against the average for their school. 

Once in the workplace, the clearer your criteria for professional advancement, the better. Informality is the enemy of women and minorities. It [`perpetuates`](    "If someone or something perpetuates a situation, system, or belief, especially a bad one, they cause it to continue. 使继续 (尤指不好的情形、体系或信仰)")<sup>保持</sup> bias. Surveys of American engineers and lawyers found that female workers were nearly twice as likely as their male peers to be saddled with “office housework”, like setting up meetings and conference calls. White men were likelier to be given careerenhancing tasks such as client meetings. 

Sponsorship schemes are an effective way to ensure traditionally sidelined groups get a fair shot. PayScale, a pay-comparison site, found that employees with a sponsor made 11.6% more than those without. The Bank of England has offered most of its sponsorship places to ethnic-minority women. Staff surveys, if bite-sized but regular, can bring clarity to fuzzy inclusion metrics. “Psychological safety”, lingo for an environment where people feel free to speak their mind, can be tracked with questions like “are your ideas regularly attributed to someone else?” or “are you regularly interrupted in meetings?” Rotating who chairs a meeting, or a firm word with loudmouths who dominate it, can help. 

Many employers—yourself included—would be horrified to learn that they implicitly require employees who want to be considered leadership material to adjust their behaviour. Women shouldn’t need to “act like a man”, gay employees to “act straight” or people with frizzy hair to treat it to “look professional” (ie, white). Let [`grievances`](   "If you have a grievance about something that has happened or been done, you believe that it was unfair. 委屈; 不满")<sup>委屈</sup> [`fester`](    "If you say that a situation, problem, or feeling is festering, you disapprove of the fact that it is being allowed to grow more unpleasant or full of anger, because it is not being properly recognized or dealt with. 恶化")<sup>恶化</sup> and your workers will lose motivation or simply leave. 

That is a lot to take in. But unless you do, your most valuable resource—workers—will not be as good as it could be. Best to get ahead of the problem. It isn’t that hard. And it can pay off mightily. 

Yours,Shareholder

***
<h3 id="5.5">Japan Inc has thrived in China of late</h3>
IN 1977, FIVE years after China and Japan re-established diplomatic relations, Miyakoshi, an electronics manufacturer, became the first Japanese firm to receive a business permit from the Communist Party, to make cassette-tape recorders. In 2017 around 32,000 Japanese companies had investments worth $117bn on the mainland, one of the biggest foreign corporate footprints. Last year they poured close to $11bn into China, up by half since 2010 and not far off America’s long-stagnating tally. Big listed Japanese firms derived 17% of their overseas profits from China, according to calculations by Jesper Koll, a fund manager in Tokyo. 

The [`rapport`](    "If two people or groups have a rapport, they have a good relationship in which they are able to understand each other's ideas or feelings very well. 融洽")<sup>密切关系</sup> between the world’s second- and third-biggest economies has never been better. Last year Chinese officials paid a visit to Panasonic, Canon and Toyota in Japan to meet executives and lure their firms to new free-trade zones. A year ago Shinzo Abe, Japan’s prime minister, travelled to China, to a forum attended by 1,000 businesspeople. During the trip the two countries announced 500 deals worth more than $18bn. Yet for all the [`bonhomie`]( "Bonhomie is happy, good-natured friendliness. 友好")<sup>友好</sup>, it is also an unusually delicate time for Japanese businesses in the People’s Republic. 

The first reason is the changing nature of commercial relations between an enriched China and the world. Japan’s firms have navigated this shift well, displaying none of the overconfidence which `bedevilled`<sup>折磨</sup> their gung-ho American misadventure in the 1980s. As Chinese labour has grown pricier, many have moved manufacturing to cheaper places in the region.UNIQLO, a Japanese garment-maker, is one of a clutch to decamp to South-East Asia. 

At the same time, many of the same companies have successfully turned themselves into desirable brands in China. Chinese shoppers covet UNIQLO’ Swell-made clothes. Fed up with safety scandals at local producers, they prefer Japanese-branded snacks and beverages from Asahi or Yoshinoya or medical products made by Kobayashi. Kao, a Japanese consumer-goods firm, recently started making a premium version of its Merries nappies for the Chinese market only. This summer Toyota invested $600m in Didi Chuxing, a Chinese ride-hailing giant. Miyakoshi, which now sells property rather than cassette-players, generates all of its sales in China. Chinese consumption has gone “beyond the point of no return”, says Takeshi Niinami, the boss of Suntory, a giant Japanese distiller. 

Japanese wares appeal not only to China’s consumers but also to its corporations. In April Toyota agreed to sell electric-car technology to Singulato, a Chinese builder of low-emissions vehicles. In June it announced partnerships to build batteries with China’s CATL, a technology company,and BYD, a carmaker. When in 2015 JD.com decided to `erect`<sup>建造</sup> China’s largest `hydroponics`<sup>无土栽培</sup> factory on the outskirts of Beijing, the Chinese e-commerce giant looked as far afield as Israel and the Netherlands for the right technology to regulate the temperature of its seedling rooms and soil-free vegetable beds. In the end, it settled for Mitsubishi Chemical. The Japanese firm has already helped build close to 20 factories like JD.com’s in China and aims to break ground on ten a year. 

Japanese firms run into the same hurdles as others trying to do business in China. Bosses in Tokyo echo Western gripes about woolly, haphazardly enforced rules, a tax system skewed towards Chinese companies, unreliable courts and theft of intellectual property. But Japan’s government and industry groups may be doing more to help them than America’s or Europe’s do for theirs. Its embassy in Beijing and the Japan External Trade Organisation, an independent government agency, have employed IP experts to assist firms. Japanese advertisers have set up shop in China to help compatriots market to local tastes. Having had its fingers burned in China a few years ago, in May Rakuten, a Japanese e-commerce giant, opened an office in Dalian, a Chinese `coastal`<sup>沿海的</sup> city now home to some 1,500 Japanese companies. 

For all its recent success in China, Japan Inc must still tread carefully there. One reason is ghosts of the past. In 2005 a controversial change to Japanese history textbooks, seen to whitewash Imperial Japan’s sins, led to riots in China and boycotts of Japanese businesses. In 2012, during a political row over the disputed Senkaku Islands, which Japan controls but China claims (and calls the Diaoyu), Toyota and Honda dealerships, as well as a Panasonic plant, were set on fire. 

Japanese firms have got better at dealing with Chinese grievances over Japan’s failure to atone for its wartime occupation of parts of China, when firms such as Mitsubishi Materials forced Chinese labourers to toil in Japanese mines. Three years ago Mitsubishi even issued a rare formal apology and has been setting up a compensation fund. But resentment simmers—and could easily boil over if China’s self-confidence continues to find expression in an assertive nationalism. 

Between the eagle and the dragon 

Then there is the spectre of Sino-American rivalry. Japanese firms have long benefited from geopolitical proximity to America and geographical closeness to China. The two are the most important markets for many Japanese companies, whose supply chains `criss-cross`<sup>十字形的</sup> both. As the superpowers jostle over everything from trade to technology, this blessing looks ever more like a curse. Because Japan’s firms are more exposed to China than American ones are—China is Japan’s largest trading partner—they would find it harder to give up on the Chinese market. It would be “a nightmare” to have to choose between Japan’s biggest neighbour and its chief strategic ally, says Ichiro Hara of Keidanren, a Japanese business lobby. As geopolitics [`impinges`](    "Something that impinges on you affects you to some extent. 对...有重大影响; 冲击")<sup>撞击</sup> on globalised commerce, the choice may become inevitable.

***
<h3 id="5.6">McDonald’s fires its boss over a workplace romance</h3>
THE SWIFTNESS of Steve Easterbrook’s exit from McDonald’s matched that of Don Thompson, his predecessor, in 2015. Mr Thompson was pushed out for poor performance. Not Mr Easterbrook, who was widely admired for doubling the American fast-food giant’s share price. On November 3rd the company announced it was sacking its British-born boss because of “a recent consensual relationship with an employee”. Chris Kempczinski, who runs its domestic business, takes over. 

Bill George of Harvard Business School called Mr Easterbrook’s departure a “tragedy” for McDonald’s. In Europe `ousting`<sup>驱逐</sup> a capable CEO drew [`bemusement`](  "Bemusement is the feeling that you have when you are puzzled or confused by something. 困惑")<sup>困惑</sup>. Süddeutsche Zeitung, a German daily, commented that, “luckily”, German labour law would bar such a move. In 2005 a court in Düsseldorf ruled that the German subsidiary of Walmart, an American retailer, could not ban its employees from flirting. Critics of restrictions on workplace romance warn that they can backfire. To them, Walmart’s hotline for anonymous tips on office indiscretions is a recipe for ｀backbiting｀<sup>诽谤</sup>. 

In America Mr Easterbrook’s sacking was, pace Mr George, broadly applauded. #MeToo has highlighted the `perils`<sup>危险</sup> of romantic workplace liaisons between people with unequal power. The powerful “find it hard to recognise the [`coercive`](  "Coercive measures are intended to force people to do something that they do not want to do. 强制的")<sup>强制的</sup> nature of their influence” over subordinates, says Vanessa Bohns of Cornell University. She has found that bosses making romantic advances towards colleagues have no idea how uncomfortable the targets of their affection feel rejecting them. 

Mr Easterbrook is not the first company boss booted out over a dalliance at work—and unlikely to be the last. In 2018 Intel’s chief executive, Brian Krzanich, resigned after the chipmaker discovered a similar affair. One in three American adults are or have been in a workplace romance, according to a poll this year by the Society for Human Resource Management, an association of HR professionals. 

Mr Kempczinski will emulate Mr Easterbrook’s strategy of switching to healthier fare and digitising operations. Investors seem to think the new boss can pull it off; he helped devise it. The firm’s share price has rebounded after dipping on the news. Mr Kempczinski calls Mr Easterbrook a “patient and helpful mentor”. His predecessor’s parting lesson will no doubt stay with him for a while.

***
<h3 id="5.7">Take the money and run</h3>
A  LATIN PHRASE beloved by every old-fashioned British schoolmaster was mens sana in corpore sano—a healthy mind in a healthy body. With that, the pedagogue would dispatch some shivering schoolchild in vest and shorts on a three-mile cross-country run. 

It turns out that those tutors were on to something. Greater physical activity is associated with better mental, as well as physical, health. And it might also be linked to greater worker productivity, and thus faster economic growth. That is the conclusion of a new report from RAND Europe, a think-tank, that was commissioned by Vitality, a British health insurer. 

It is reasonably well established that physical activity reduces the risks of heart disease, type 2 diabetes, strokes and some cancers. And a report by Britain’s Physical Activity Guidelines Advisory Committee in 2018 found that engaging in around 30 minutes of exercise a day could lower the likelihood of depression by more than 40%. RAND conducted a workplace survey across seven countries, and it found that those who reported higher levels of activity (equating to 150 minutes a week of moderate exercise, or 75 minutes of vigorous workout) had better mental health on average. 

Does this make them better workers? Previous studies have suggested that those who exercise more tend to earn 5-10% more on average. A number of factors could explain this, however. Those who participate in team sports may make contacts in the locker room that help them in their careers. Or it could simply be that higher earners can afford to take advantage of sports facilities, such as gym memberships. 

The RAND study looks at different measures: absenteeism (when workers take time off for illness) and presenteeism (when they turn up for work but are less productive because of sickness). The latter measure was self-reported by employees, who were asked whether their work was adversely affected by health issues. The survey suggests that between 3 and 4.5 working days each year are lost as a consequence of workers being physically inactive. This is between 1.3% and 2% of annual working time. The bulk of this was down to presenteeism. 

Another potential gain from improved fitness is reduced health-care costs. In many countries, these would accrue to the public sector. But in America, where health care is often provided through employment-based schemes, firms could benefit. It is hard to know what proportion of these costs could be trimmed, but RAND estimates that total American health savings could be $6bn a year by 2025 (using the same targets for moderate or vigorous exercise as before). 

That is a rounding error in America’s annual health-care bill of $3.5trn. But, with the help of fancy econometrics, the study’s authors conclude that if people met these exercise targets, global GDP could be around 0.17-0.24% higher by 2050. Nothing to sniff at in a world of slowing growth—though the uncertainties involved in forecasting over such long periods mean such estimates should be treated with extreme caution. 

How to encourage workers to become more active? [`Incentives`]( "If something is an incentive to do something, it encourages you to do it. 鼓励")<sup>刺激</sup> are useful but only if they have conditions; giving all employees subsidised gym membership does not seem to work. Another RAND Europe study examined an experiment in which workers were given an Apple watch, payable in `instalments`<sup>分期付款</sup> at a discounted price—but only to those who agreed to have their physical activity monitored. Monthly repayments depended on how much exercise they took. If they met the targets they ended up paying 10% of the watch’s list price; those who took no exercise paid the full whack. 

This approach takes advantage of a behavioural bias known as loss aversion—people are eager to avoid paying more. On average, participants in the scheme undertook 30% more exercise than before. 

The problem is that many people are too optimistic about their health, underestimating the risks they face. This means that participation in workplace exercise schemes tends to be low, around 7% in the sample studied by RAND. 

Firms are not the only ones that can encourage a healthier lifestyle; friends and families are likely to be more important. But businesses can play a bigger role. If RAND is right, this may bring them financial benefits. Company taskmasters may yet grow fond of an adapted [`adage`]( "An adage is something that people often say and that expresses a general truth about some aspect of life. 谚语"): mens sana in corporate sano. 

***
<h3 id="5.8">TikTok’s silly clips raise some serious questions</h3>
IF THIS ARTICLE were a TikTok video, it would already be almost over—and you would be smiling. TikTok’s 15-second clips are all the rage among teenage netizens. The app was downloaded more than 750m times in the past 12 months, more than Facebook plus its sister services, Instagram and WhatsApp, combined. Fun aside, TikTok raises serious questions—about data geopolitics, the power of internet incumbents and who sees what online. 

TikTok is YouTube on steroids. It bombards users with self-repeating clips. It forms a genre of quick-hit entertainment: a [`prank`](   "A prank is a childish trick. 恶作剧")<sup>恶作剧</sup>, a dare, a teenager looking pretty. Most are produced by adolescents, with easy-to-use editing tools. The app makes money from adverts and commissions on digital tips. It may one day generate revenue from e-commerce, like its Chinese sister app, Douyin. Both are owned by ByteDance, a Beijing firm valued at $75bn, more than any other private startup. 

The China connection has Washington in a [`tizzy`]( "If you get in a tizzy or into a tizzy, you get excited, worried, or nervous about something, especially something that is not important. 心慌意乱")<sup>心慌意乱</sup>. On November 1st it emerged that America’s government has opened a national-security review of ByteDance’s takeover in 2017 of Musical.ly, an app developed in China, which later became TikTok. On November 5th congressmen [`lambasted`]( "If you lambaste someone, you criticize them severely, usually in public. (公开地)严厉斥责")<sup>严责</sup> ByteDance for not showing up to a hearing. 

Hawks argue that TikTok gives the government in Beijing access to data on millions of Americans and that it censors content the regime does not like. If America’s sanctions on Huawei, a maker of telecoms gear, are about disentangling electronics supply chains, its assault on ByteDance is an attempt to keep the data flows of America and China separate. ByteDance rejects these accusations, saying that non-Chinese user data sit on non-Chinese servers, and that decisions about what not to show American users are made in America. 

For his part, Mark Zuckerberg is less worried about data sovereignty and more about competition from TikTok, China’s first [`runaway`]( "You use runaway to describe a situation in which something increases or develops very quickly and cannot be controlled. 迅猛发展而难以控制的") web success in America. Facebook is pulling out the big guns it deploys against fast-growing upstarts. In late 2018 it launched Lasso, a TikTok clone. An independent developer recently unearthed a feature hidden in Instagram’s code that apes TikTok’s editing tools. It is [`cold comfort`](   "If you say that a slightly encouraging fact or event is cold comfort to someone, you mean that it gives them little or no comfort because their situation is so difficult or unpleasant. 不起作用的安慰")<sup>无用安慰</sup> to Mr Zuckerberg that should his defences fail, Big Tech’s critics will have to concede that digital monopolies are not that invincible after all. 

Critics of artificial intelligence are also watching the Chinese app closely. What users see on Facebook and other Western social media is in part still down to who their friends are and what they share. TikTok’s main feed, called “For You”, is determined by algorithm alone: it watches how users behave in the app and uses the information to decide what to play next. Such systems create the ultimate filter bubble. 

All these worries would be [`allayed`]( "If you allay someone's fears or doubts, you stop them feeling afraid or doubtful. 消除 (恐惧、疑虑)")<sup>消除</sup> if TikTok turns out to be a passing [`fad`](  "You use fad to refer to an activity or topic of interest that is very popular for a short time, but which people become bored with very quickly. 一时的狂热")<sup>时尚</sup>. In a way, the app is only riding on other social networks. It relies on people’s Facebook or Twitter accounts for many sign-ins. TikTok owes part of its success to relentless advertising on rival services. According to some estimates, it spent perhaps $1bn on social-media ads in 2018. At the same time, many who download TikTok quickly tire of its endless digital sugar-rush. 

Slowing growth may not stop politicians from hobbling the app. They could decide to bar it from America altogether. For once, Mr Zuckerberg would be cheering them on.

***
<h2 id="6">Science and technology</h2>
<h3 id="6.1">Modern genetics will improve health and usher in “designer” children</h3>
SOMETIME NEXT year, if all goes to plan, a gay male couple in California will have a child. The child in question will have been conceived by in vitro fertilisation. In this case a group of eggs from a female donor are now being fertilised by sperm from both fathers (half from one, half from the other). Of the resulting embryos, the couple will choose one to be implanted in a surrogate mother. An [`uplifting`](  "You describe something as uplifting when it makes you feel very cheerful and happy. 令人振奋的")<sup>令人振奋的</sup> tale of the times, then, but hardly a newsworthy event. Except that it is. 

Where the story becomes newsworthy is around the word “choose”. For the parents, in conjunction with a firm called Genomic Prediction, will pick the lucky embryo based on a genetically estimated risk of disease. Such pre-implantation testing is already used in some places, in cases where there is a chance of parents passing on a condition, such as Tay-Sachs disease, that is caused by a single faulty gene. Genomic Prediction is, however, offering something more wide-ranging. It is screening embryos for almost 1m single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). These are places where individual genomes routinely differ from one another at the level of an individual genetic letter. Individual SNP differences between people rarely have much effect. But add them up and they can raise or lower by quite a lot the likelihood of someone suffering a particular disease. Generate several embryos and SNP-test them, then, and you can pick out those that you think will grow up to be the healthiest. 

Much fuss was made last year about a researcher in China, He Jiankui, who edited the genomes of two human embryos in order to try, he claimed, to make them immune to infection by HIV, the virus that causes AIDS. What Genomic Prediction proposes is different. No editing is involved. There is thus no risk of harming a child by putting it through a risky experimental procedure. Whether Genomic Prediction’s particular technique will actually deliver super-healthy children remains to be seen. The principle seems `plausible`<sup>貌似可信的</sup>, though. History may therefore look back on this moment as the true beginning of “designer” babies. And the tool that has made that possible is called GWAS. 

GWAS stands for genome-wide association study. It is the endpoint of a historical process that began in the mid-19th century with Gregor Mendel, a Moravian abbot and amateur botanist. Mendel worked out the first set of rules of heredity. This led to the idea of a gene. And that, when allied with the discovery that the material of heredity is a chemical called DNA, which encodes genetic information in the order of its component units, known as nucleotides, led to the idea of a gene being a particular piece of DNA that carries in its nucleotides the blueprint of a particular protein. This protein goes on to contribute, in combination with environmental effects such as nutrition, to a particular bodily or behavioural characteristic, known as a `phenotypic`<sup>表型的</sup> trait. 

Since the 1950s, researchers have tried to quantify the relative contributions of genes and the environment to such traits. Mostly, this is in the context of disease. But behavioural characteristics, personality and cognitive ability have also been matters of interest. GWAs expands this process by looking not just at the effects of individual genes, but across the whole genome—for protein-coding genes make up only about 2% of a person’s DNA. 

Comparisons, over several generations of a family, of the `prevalence`<sup>流行</sup> of a particular trait yield estimates of its heritability—a measure of how well individual genetic differences account for variations in that trait in a given population. A heritability of 100% indicates that any differences in a trait between individuals in that population are accounted for solely by genetic factors, while 0% suggests the environment alone is responsible. The phrase “given population” is important. Some populations may be exposed to relevant environmental variables unknown to others. Conversely, genetic factors present in one group (better response to oxygen [`scarcity`](  "If there is a scarcity of something, there is not enough of it for the people who need it or want it. 缺乏; 稀少")<sup>不足</sup> in those evolved to live at high altitude, for example) may be absent in another. 

An analysis published in 2015 of more than 2,700 studies of heritability shows that its average value, for all traits looked into in those studies, is about 50%. That includes physical traits like susceptibility to heart disease (44%) and eye disorders (71%), and mental ones, including “higher-level” cognitive functions (47%) such as problem-solving and abstract thought. 

Other, less obvious traits are heritable, too. The amount of time a child spends watching television was assumed for many years to have a heritability close to zero. In 1990, however, a study led by Robert Plomin, now at King’s College, London, compared the habits of adopted children with those of their birth mothers. It found television-watching has a heritability of about 45%. Similar surprisingly heritable traits include a child’s tendency to be bullied at school (more than 70%) or to be accident-prone (51%). Even someone’s likelihood of being religious (30-40%) or of getting divorced (13%) is heritable. 

In 1989 James Watson, the first head of the Human Genome Project, summarised the mood of many by declaring that “We used to think our fate was in our stars. Now we know, in large measure, our fate is in our genes.” There was hope then that the genome project would locate those genes. No one was naive enough to think that there existed, say, such a thing as a gene for television-watching. But it was reasonable to believe that there might be a handful of genes which combined to encourage television-watching indirectly. More important, there was an expectation that the heritable causes of things like heart disease might be pinned down to such genetic handfuls. These might then be investigated as drug targets. To everyone’s frustration, though, few such genes revealed themselves. And in most cases the contributions they made to a condition’s heritability were small. Where, then, was the missing heritability? 

With [`hindsight`]( "Hindsight is the ability to understand and realize something about an event after it has happened, although you did not understand or realize it at the time. 后见之明")<sup>后见之明</sup>, the answer was obvious. The number of variants that play a role in disease risk is far higher than Mendel-blinded researchers had imagined. Though human beings are genetically more than 99.9% alike, they have 6bn genetic letters in their genomes. This is where the SNPs are hidden, for a diversity of less than 0.1% still leaves room for millions of them. And when SNPs’ contributions are combined, their effects can be significant. For height, for example, the number of relevant SNPs is reckoned to be about 100,000—each adding or subtracting, on average, 0.14mm to or from a person’s adult stature. Furthermore, most of these SNPs are in parts of the genome that do not encode proteins at all. Rather, they regulate the activities of other genes and often have no obvious connection to the trait in question. 

To be fair, it was mainly human geneticists who were captivated by the simple Mendelian model of single genes with big effects. According to Peter Visscher of the University of Queensland, Australia, many plant and animal scientists knew of traits’ genetic complexity long before the Human Genome Project started. But they were more interested in breeding better crops or [`livestock`](  "Animals such as cattle and sheep which are kept on a farm are referred to as livestock. 家畜")<sup>家畜</sup> than in understanding the biology behind such complexity. 

Dr Visscher was one of the first to realise that human studies would need to recruit more participants and screen for many thousands more SNPs if they were to capture in full the genetic components of most traits. In 2007 he and his colleagues used models to show that for a condition with a prevalence of 10% in the general population, approximately 10,000 volunteers are required to identify the SNPs marking the 5% of those at highest risk of developing that condition. Earlier studies, often with just a few hundred participants, had simply not been powerful enough to see what was going on. And thus was GWAS born. 

Ideally, a GWAS would obtain a full sequence of the genome of every participating individual. However, even though the cost of such sequences has fallen dramatically since the completion of the genome project, to about $1,000 a shot, this would still be `prohibitively`<sup>过分地</sup> expensive. Instead, researchers use devices called SNP arrays. These detect hundreds of thousands of the most common SNPs for a price of $50 or so. 

A combination of SNP arrays, larger samples of volunteers and better computing methods means it is now possible to find millions of variants that contribute to a trait. An individual’s score from these variants, known as his polygenic score, can then be calculated by adding up their contributions to give, for example, his risk of developing a particular disease in later life. 

Another advance has been a change in the way volunteers are recruited. Institutions called biobanks have come into existence. These hold both tissue samples from, and a range of medical and other data about, large numbers of people who have agreed to make those data available to researchers who meet the criteria employed by the bank in question. 

Among the largest of these repositories is the UK Biobank, in Britain. This has 500,000 depositors. One study that drew on it, published in 2018 by Sekar Kathiresan of the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston and his colleagues, worked out polygenic risk scores for five diseases, including coronary heart disease and type 2 diabetes. By totting up scores from over 6m genetic variants, they were able to elucidate SNP patterns that identify those who are at a threefold higher risk or worse than the general British population of developing one of these diseases. For heart disease, 8% of the population are at such risk. For type 2 diabetes, 3.5%. 

Nasim Mavaddat of the University of Cambridge and her colleagues have similarly calculated polygenic risk scores for breast cancer. These showed that a British woman’s average ten-year risk of developing breast cancer at the age of 47 (the earliest that England’s National Health Service begins screening for the disease) is 2.6%. The study also found that the 19% of women who had the highest risk scores reached this level of risk by the age of 40. Conversely, the 10% at lowest risk did not cross the threshold until they were 80. 

Using these and similar studies, it is possible to draw up lifetime risk profiles for various medical conditions. A British firm called Genomics has done that for 16 diseases (see chart). This will help screening programmes to triage who they screen, by offering their services earlier to those at high risk of developing a condition early in their lives. It will also permit the dispensing of risk-appropriate advice about diet and exercise to those who need it most, and the early offering to those who might benefit from them of things like statins and antihypertensive drugs. In light of all this England’s National Health Service announced in July that 5m healthy Britons would be offered free gene tests. 

A third study that drew on the UK Biobank is rather different. It was published in October and demonstrated the power of GWAS to reach beyond non-medical matters. It examined patterns of internal migration in Britain, and showed that there has been an outward migration from former coalmining areas of people with SNP patterns associated with high educational attainment—precisely the sorts of individuals economically deprived places can least afford to lose. 

Educational attainment also demonstrates how heritability varies with environment. In Norway, for example, heritability of educational attainment increased after the second world war as access to education widened. Since all children now had more or less the same opportunities at school, environmental variation was largely ironed out and the effects of genetic differences consequently exaggerated. 

Both of these examples foreshadow how the sort of genetics made possible by GWAS can have political consequences. The implication of the internal-migration study is that the geographically left-behind are dimmer, on average, than the leavers. The implication of the Norwegian study might likewise be seen by some as suggesting that those who have done well at school and thus snagged the best (and best-paid) jobs are part of a genetic elite that deserves its success, rather than being the lucky winners of a genetic lottery. 

And that is just within a country. Start comparing people from different parts of the world and you enter a real minefield. Because most of the genetic data now available come from populations of European ancestry, their predictive power is poorer for people from elsewhere. Alicia Martin of the Broad Institute in Massachusetts and her colleagues scored West Africans for height based on SNPs drawn from studies on European or European-derived populations. The scores predicted that West Africans should be shorter than Europeans. Actually, they are not. 

As more people of non-European ancestry are sequenced, these problems may abate. But if group-based differences emerge or persist in the face of better data, that would be cause for concern. Differences between groups in things like height are rarely cause for prejudice beyond a jocular level. For something like educational attainment, by contrast, there is a risk that politically motivated groups would try to exploit any differences found to support dubious theories of racial superiority. 

To some historians, this looks horribly familiar. They fear that the old spectre of eugenics risks rising in a new guise. As Nathaniel Comfort of Johns Hopkins University, in Baltimore, observes, “The IQ test was invented in order to identify students who needed extra help in school. But within about a decade, it was being used as a tool to weed out the so-called ‘feebleminded’, not just from school but from the gene pool.” Such fears of genetic [`stratification`](   "Stratification is the division of something, especially society, into different classes or layers. (社会的)阶层分化") would become particularly acute if polygenic scores were applied to embryos for the purpose of selecting which to implant during IVF—as Genomic Prediction is just about to do. 

Genomic Prediction and a second firm, MyOme (which is not yet accepting customers), claim to be able to build up an accurate picture of an embryo’s genome. That is tricky because the sequencing has to be carried out using the tiny quantities of DNA in a few cells taken from that embryo. A sequence so obtained would normally be full of errors. The two companies say they can deal with this by comparing embryonic sequences with those of the biological parents. All of the DNA in the embryo has come from one or other parent, so blocks of embryonic DNA can be matched to well-established sequences from their parental progenitors and an accurate embryonic sequence established. That makes working out the embryo’s SNP pattern possible. 

Genomic Prediction thus says it is able to offer couples undergoing IVF a polygenic risk score for each embryo for a variety of diseases including type 1 diabetes, type 2 diabetes, breast cancer, testicular cancer, prostate cancer, basal-cell carcinoma, malignant melanoma, heart attack, atrial fibrillation, coronary artery disease, hypertension and high cholesterol. At the moment it does not offer scores for non-medical traits like height or educational attainment. But there is nothing to prevent it from doing so should it so wish. 

Even for medically relevant scores, however, some worry about this approach. One concern is pleiotropy—the phenomenon of the same piece of DNA influencing several apparently unrelated traits. Choosing an embryo with a low risk of heart disease might accidentally give it, say, a higher chance of developing epilepsy. Single-mindedly maximising scores for positive traits like intelligence or height may therefore increase the risk of genetic disorders. 

Stephen Hsu of Michigan State University, one of Genomic Prediction’s founders, acknowledges the theoretical risk of this, but argues that serious pleiotropic effects are unlikely. “If you looked at a bunch of kids with IQs of, say, 160 or 170,” he says, “I doubt you’d find much seriously wrong with them. They’d just be a bunch of geeks.” Dr Hsu, who in 2014 predicted that reproductive technologies would soon be used to select for more intelligent offspring, estimates that an IQ gain of between 10 and 15 points would be possible if couples were allowed to choose between ten embryos. He also thinks that further gains would probably accumulate if people selected in this way went on to select their own offspring on the basis of intelligence. 

This is plausible. Before 2008, when the first SNP chips for cattle became available, the annual milk yield of dairy cows in America had been increasing at about 50kg per year. After six years of chip-based polygenic selection, the rate of increase had doubled to more than 100kg per year. This suggests the technique is powerful—in cattle at least. Despite Dr Hsu’s optimism, however, pleiotropism has reared its head in these animals. They have become less fertile and have weaker immune systems. 

In the end, then, it is generally a good idea to remember that human beings have already been optimised by a powerful agent called natural selection. Trade-offs between different pieces of physiology, even in domestic animals, will have been forged in the crucible of evolution and will generally be optimal, or close to it. Genetic tinkering may sometimes improve things. But by no means always. 

***
<h2 id="7">Obituary</h2>

***
<h3 id="7.1">Obituary: Huang Yong Ping died on October 20th</h3>
CREEPY CRAWLIES [`intrigued`](  "If you are intrigued by something, especially something strange, it interests you and you want to know more about it. 感兴趣的") him. Beetles, centipedes, cockroaches, crickets, geckos, toads and snakes. The way they devoured each other while at the same time providing sustenance for their fellow creatures was symbolic of humans’ existence on Earth, he felt, and he poured them into “Theatre of the World”, one of his best-known works. Best of all were the snakes. Where the River Loire empties into the Bay of Biscay in his adopted France, you can see one of his colossal shimmering serpents emerge from the water as the tide recedes; at times it looks like a sea snake, at others an earthly reptile. He made one for the Shanghai Power Station of Art, and another for a show in Queensland, Australia. Both were skeletons of creatures big enough to have devoured others, yet it was their own flesh that had withered to nothing. In 2016 he made his biggest serpent yet, a 254-metre-long beast (pictured) that coiled and roiled over islands of sea containers stacked around the nave of the Grand Palais in Paris, its unhinged jaw open so wide it looked as if it could swallow the world. 

The chaos of power, the fragility of empires, the tottering precariousness of globalisation—devour or be devoured—these were the themes he returned to again and again. Nothing was certain, save for uncertainty. In the West the snake was temptation, sexuality, the crusher of children. In China it represented good luck, prosperity and rebirth in its ability to shed its skin. As an artist, Mr Huang loved its multiple symbolisms; as a philosopher, he found himself drawn to its ambiguities. His artistic ideas were a fusion of East and West, ever more so as he grew older. 

And yet that connection might never have been formed had he not been displaced himself. On May 18th 1989, the day the Chinese government made the secret decision, implemented 48 hours later, to impose martial law and crush the protests in Beijing’s Tiananmen Square, he was in Paris, 10,000km from his home town of Xiamen. It was the same day that “Magiciens de la Terre” opened at the Pompidou Centre. The original global contemporary-art show, “Magiciens” showed Western artists for the first time alongside artists from across the world, and changed art history forever. Mr Huang was the first Chinese artist chosen to take part. 

He had left China shortly before with little other than the skipping rope he always carried in his pocket. After “Magiciens” he was advised it would not be safe to go home, so he stayed on in France, squatting in cheap artists’ studios, living on grants and residencies offered by friendly curators and travelling on a laissez-passer from the French foreign ministry. The seventh of eight children of a middle-class family of tea merchants in Fujian who, like many Chinese, lost their business when it was nationalised after the Communists took control in 1949, and whose schooling was disrupted by the tumult of the Cultural Revolution, he was used to being self-sufficient. He carried everything he needed in his head. He had absorbed Zen Buddhism and Taoist cosmology and magic as easily as he would later read Foucault and Wittgenstein; books were the only thing he liked to spend money on. 

He had learned early on about Duchamp and the Dadaist movement through a few photocopied pages of a Taiwanese version of Pierre Cabanne’s “Dialogues with Marcel Duchamp”, which convinced him that art could not be detached from real life, but should instead take a stand on everything. When he revolted against the painting curriculum at the Zhejiang Academy of Fine Arts and was told to be a high-school teacher rather than an approved artist, he founded Xiamen Dada, a revolutionary artists’ co-operative. In 1986 the group put on an exhibition of their recent work, some of which, inspired by Duchamp, was made of objects they had found in the street. At the end of the show, the group set their artworks on fire, believing that only destruction would prove that it was the ideas rather than the objects that were the real works of art. 

Mr Huang was lucky to come of age just as the Chinese avant-garde, known as the ’85 New Wave, was taking off. He was lucky too to fetch up in France, where artists and artistic theories were part of mainstream culture. In 1999 he represented France at the Venice Biennale, and on the day it opened Catherine Trautmann, the culture minister, handed the artist his first French passport. Becoming French cost him his Chinese citizenship and should logically have made him persona [`non grata`](    "Current managing director Dominic Barton personally called Gupta to tell him he was now persona non grata at the firm.  当前的常务董事鲍达民亲自致电古普塔，称他如今被公司列为不受欢迎的人。") in China. Yet the opposite proved true. 

In 2000 he returned home for the first time in over a decade. Where once his works were collected almost exclusively by Western buyers such as François Pinault and Bernard Arnault, now he was sought out by Chinese museums, including M+, which will open in Hong Kong next year, and the Red Brick Art Museum on the outskirts of Beijing. Like the serpents he loved making, he was able to slip silently across frontiers, making works that were deeply political yet never dissident. For the 2000 Shanghai Biennial, he created “Bank of Sand, Sand of Bank”, a 20-tonne replica of the British-designed former HSBC Bank, which became a Communist government building after 1949 and in the 1990s was the headquarters of the Pudong Development Bank. Made of sand, thinly laced with cement, the work was designed to crumble away. In France it was seen as a critique of dog-eat-dog capitalism; in China as a comment on the weak heart of colonialism. He revelled in the ambiguity, which is why when he died suddenly of a brain haemorrhage, both France and China claimed him as their own.


***